    W         W  A    RRRR  L    OOO  RRRR  DDDD   SSSS
     W   W   W  A A   R   R L   O   O R   R D   D SS 
      W W W W  AAAAA  RRRR  L   O   O RRRR  D   D   SSS
       W   W  A     A R   R LLLL OOO  R   R DDDD  SSSS

                 C  O  N  T  E  N  T  S
1. INTRODUCTION (3)                9. MOVING (19)
                                       9.1 Movement Points (19)
2. AN OVERVIEW (3)                     9.2 Illegal Moves (19)
                                       9.3 Movement in stacks (20)
3. TUTORIAL (5)
                                   10. ATTACKING (20)
4. STARTING A GAME (6)                 10.1 Details of Attacking (20)
    4.1 Choosing Sides (6)             10.2 Strength Points (20)
    4.2 The Screen Layout (7)          10.3 Attacking Cities (20)
    4.3 Living in Illuria (8)          10.4 How the System Works (21)
        4.3.1 Commands(8)
        4.3.2 Orders (11)          11. SEARCHING (21)
        4.3.3 Hero Actions (1)         11.1 Details of Searching (21)
        4.3.4 Reports (13)             11.2 where to Search (22)
        4.3.5 Game Features (14)       11.3 The Artifacts (22)
                                       11.4 Actions and Artifacts (22)
5. ARMIES (15)                         11.5 Libraries (22)
    5.1 Intorduction to Armies (15)    11.6 Sages (23)
    5.2 Stacking (15)                  11.7 Blessing (23)
    5.3 Army Info (15)
                                   12. HOW TO WIN (23)
6. PLAYING THE GAME (16)
    6.1 Starting Conditions (16)   13. STRENGTHS (24)
    6.2 A Sample Turn (16)
                                   14. SURRENDER (26)
7. MONEY (17)
    7.1 Income/Expenditure (17)    15. DESIGN CREDITS (26)
    7.2 Lack of Money (17)
                                   APPENDIX
8. PRODUCTION (17)                     City and Army Data (27)
    8.1 Details of Production (17)     Movement Costs (29)
                                       Combat Mechanics (30)
                                       Army Types (33)
                                < 1 >

1. I N T R O D U C T I O N
 Warlords is an eight player game of the struggle for supreme power in the fabled
Kingdom of Illuria. The manual is written for all versions of the game. Computer
specific information may be found on the seprate information card, and in a 
README file. If there is a README file, please read it before starting the game.
 If you have any problems with the components, or questions about the game, 
please contact Stratigic Studies Group at one of the addresses shown at the end
of this manual.

2. A N   O V E R V I E W
 Warlords is a stratigic war game, fought out by eight different players, for the
domination of the Kingdom of Illuria. It can be played by one to eight people,
with the computer taking the remaining positions. For example, you could have
one human versus seven computer opponents, or three humans versus five computer
opponents; the mix of human and computer players is up to you. You may even
watch eight computer players fight it out.
 The Kingdom of Illuria, after some severe internal disputes, has setthed under
a sullen and uneasy peace. This truce has now disappeared, along with the arch-
mage who imposed it. The eight empires of Illuria realize that this is their
chance for total domination, a very unstable situation. Forces are being
mobilized for conquest, and only one Supreme Warlord will prevail.
 Your objectives in Warlords are brutally simple: to eliminate all organized
opposition to your rule. To do this, you will have to control all eighty cities
in the lands of Illuria, and thereby eliminate all seven opponents.
 There are many ways to achieve this, and brute force is just one of them. you
might ally with dragons or wizards, or have your Heros search out and wield
magical swords that will tip the battle in your favour. Clever military tactics
and even economic warfare are possibilities too!
 The Kingdom of Illuria is roughly divided into eight parts, each one controlled
by one of the eight empires. The contending empires appear below, with their
identifying color, and a breif description. If there is no color available,
or the colors are different, this will be covered in your computer specific
instructions.

The Sirians (White)
 The Sirians are Knights of a one-time chivalrous Order, dedicated to sperading
the worship of their God to all of Illuria. Conversion by the sword is their
favoured, (and some say their only), method of spreading the good word. their
capital city is Marthos, on the southern edge of Eastern Sulador.
                                < 3 >

2. The Storm Giants (Yellow)  
 The Storm Giants are a race of powerful twelve foot tall giants, whose capital
city, Stormhiem, is located on the peak of storm Mountain, in Western Sulador.
The Storm Giants despise all those shorter than themselves, and have vowed to
purify Illuria of what they see as an infestion of minuscule pests.

3. The Gery Dwarves (Brown)
 The Grey Dwarves are a hardy folk, living in the city of Khamar, which is 
found in the Niroth Mountains in Central Lauredor. They desire to mine and 
exploit all the treasures of Illuria without let or hindrance. The surface
dwelling races of Illuria are uniformly regarded as an obstacle to this
grand ambition.

4. The Orcs fo Kor (Red)
 In the city of Kor, in far off Huinedor, live a degenerate race of Orcs, led
by a vile creature known as the Great Orc. Years of being the object of both
derision and disgust to the other races has bred a terrible reslove. They
will stop at nothing to spread their bloddy-minded rule over all of Illuria.
The rest of Illuria regards the term 'degenerate', when applied to Orcs, as
redundant.

5. Elvallie (Green)
 Elvallie is the name of a forest and a city and the people who dwell therein.
It is the homeland of the Light Elves of Illuria, in Central Sulador. An
arrogant race, they believe that only they are fit to live in harmony with the
land. They consider the removal of all other sentient races from Illuria to be
merely sound ecological practice.

6. The Selentines (Dark Blue)
 The Selentines are a cruel empire of humans, whose capital is Enmouth, on the
Western edge of Lauredor, by the Paramer Sea. They are a great naval force, and
will miss no opportunity to spread their rule into new lands. They also regard
all trees as ships that are simply yet to be constructed.

7. The Horse Lords (Light Blue)
 The Horse Lords are a wild people, living on the plains in Eastern Lauredor,
between the White and Nirnoth Mountains. Their capital city is Dunethel,
where they can usually be found amassing great legions of cavalry. They covet
all the lands of Illuria, and consider it the height of achievment to stable
their horses in the ruins of other civilizations.

8. Lord Bane (Black)
 Lord Bane is an evil force, lurking in his citadel in the encircling
mountains of Argundor. His legions include all sorts of warped races, such
as Dark Elves, Men, Ogres and Orcs. Tradition and ambition both decree that
he attempt to enslave all of Illuria.
                               < 4 >

3. T U T O R I A L
 It would be a good idea before starting this tutorial to read Chapter 4, at
least up to the end of section 4.3.1. this will give you the general picture
of the screen layout in Warlords.
 Consult the computer specific card for installing the game on a hard disk
or running it from floppies.
 When the game option screen is displayed at the start of the game, choose to
play the Elvallie as Human. Click on the icon beside the Elvallie name until
the word human appears. Set all the other players to computer control as
Knights; click on each icon until the word Knight appears. When you have
finished, Click the O.K. button. The computer players will each take their
first turn then the Info Screen will ask you to start your first turn.
 As this is the first turn of the game, a Hero is automatically supplied.
Click once to bring up the dialog box. Click on the Name button or text field,
type a name in the dialog box and hit the Enter key. Click the Done button
when you are finished, click the O.K. button. The Hero will appear in your
Capital, and you will be placed automatically into the PRODUCTION display.
 You have three choises, heavy infantry at two turns/four gold pieces, elven
archers at one turn/four gold pieces and Pegasi at six turns/sixteen gold
peices. Click on the elven archer icon and then click on the PROD buttton.
You have just told the castle to produce one elven archer per turn.
 It just so happens that there is a very weak, neutral castle just up the
road, and your Hero could almost certainly take the place just by turning
up. However as this is a tutorial, we will be a little more cautious.
Choose the End Turn action from the Turn Menu.
 After a brief pause for the computer players to make their second move, it
will be your turn again. Click to start the turn. You will see a message
announcing the arrival of the "Elvallie 1st Elven Archers", and asking if
you wish to keep producing them. Click the YES button to keep churning
out your troops.
 The army will be added to your hero, making a stack of two. That's enough
to do over the neutrals down the road. An army icon, either the Hero or the
elven archer, will appear on the city wall. The other icon is underneath it.
Click on the top icon. A small cursor will appear over the icon. This tells
you that the top icon is selected. To select the whole stack (i.e. the Hero
and the elven archer), double-click on the top icon. A larger cursor has
appeared, enclosing the flag-pole adjacent to the army. The larger cursor
tells you that the whole stack is selected. The smaller cursor tells you
that only a single army is selected. The size of the flag tells you how many
armies are in each stack.
 Move the cursor randomly over the map. It changes to an arrow shape, telling
you that movement orders are possible.
 Scroll the map with the arrow key untill the grey castle comes into view in
the top right corner. Click with the mouse just next to the left hand side
                                  < 5 > 

of the castle. Your stack will move to that point. (If you hold the cursor
over the castle itself, the cursor changes into a sword, and if you click
there an error beep sounds. You must be adjacent to attack.)
 Once adjacent, you should have two movement points left, just enough to
attack. (If you don't, just wait until next turn). Move the cursor over the
castle until it has changed into a sword, and click. Battle is joined
immediatly, and the results are displayed. You will almost certainly win. On
the off chance that you don't, just restart the tutorial again! If you have
been victorious, click to bring up Production details for newly conquered
castle in the Info Screen. There is only one unit type which can be built at
this castle, so click on the Light Infantry icon and then the Prod button.
Select END TURN from the Menu Strip.
 That's two castles down, seventy eight to go! The object early on is to grab
as many neutral castles (the grey ones) as possible, before the other guys
can. There is a cluster of three to the Northeast of the one you have just
captured. Head for those strait away, and produce as many armies as quickly
as you can to get the other neutral castles around the place. See Chapter 12
for more detail on how to win the game.
 A Reminder About Stacks and Armies
 It is important to realize the difference between single and double clicking
on unit icons. Single clicking selects a single army from a stack, double
clicking selects the whole stack. Mostly you will want to double click.
 Armise (and stacks) will be automatically deselected when their movement
allowance runs out. If you do not wish a unit or stack to use all of their
movement allowance, you must deselect the army (or stack) by clicking on the
Command Bar.

4. S T A R T I N G   A   G A M E
 Follow  the instructions on the computer specific card for loading and
starting the game.

4.1 Choosing Sides
 The first thing you will see on beginning a new game, is the title screen.
Click the mouse button to get past this. You will see the game setup screen.
This  id where you choose which sides will be played  by people, and which
ones by the computer.
 The left hand side of the screen lists all eight empires in the game along
with the icons diplaying who is controlling them. There are four levels of
computer control, Knight, Baron, Lord and Warlord. The computer Warlords are
Very fierce opponents, and we recommend that you start off playing against
Knights.
 To change the control of a player, just click on the icon. A Difficulty
factor appears in the lower part of the screen. The tougher your opponents,
the higher the difficulty factor. One human fighting seven computer Warlords
is as hard as it can get (100% difficulty). When all your choices have been
made, click on the O.K. button to start the game.
 We want you to realize that the computer uses exactly the same rules you
                             < 6 >
do. There are no secret bonuses available to computer players. In fact,
the opposite is true. For example, Knights deliberatly waste money and
sometimes forget what they are doing and who they hate.
 Startigic Studies Group has pioneered the development of superior artificial
intelligence in strategy games. Warlords benefits from these years of
experience and we believe the level of subtlety and skill displayed by the
computer players in this game is second to none.

4.2 The Screen Layout
 The computer screen is divided into five major areas.

Area A-This is the Playing Map. Most of the game action takes place on this
map. It is the tactical map. You will see close-up views of your armies and
castles here, and you will control their movement by clicking into this screen.

Area B-This is the Stratigic Map. This screen displays a map of all Illuria.
It is always present during play. The area of the Stratigic Map currently
visible on the Playing Map is shown by a small cursor. If you need global
information, such as where all of your armies are located, it will be displayed
in this screen.

Area C-This is the Info Screen. Any text information will be shown down here.
This includes what turn number it is, how much gold you have, and statistics
for your armies, as well as many other things.
                                   < 7 >

Area D-This is the Command Bar. The most common actions used in Warlords are
located on the central Command Bar.

Area E-This is the Menu Strip. The remaining actions used in Warlords are
located on the Menu strip.

4.3 Living in Illuria
 The actions in Warlords have been divided into five categories.
(1).Commands. These are either issued directly by clicking on the map, or
by clicking on the Command Bar in the middle of the screen.
(2).Orders. These are accessed from the menu strip across the top of the
screen. The actions which can be chosen from this menu are used less frequently
than commands.
(3).Hero Actions. These apply only to heros. They are accessed from the menu
strip across the top of the screen.
(4).Reports. These are used toget iinformation about the status of the game.They
are accessed from the menu strip across the top of the screen.
(5).Game Features. These features affect the playing environment. They are
accessed from the menu strip across the top of the screen.

4.3.1 Commands

SELECT ARMY
 When the cursor is positioned over an army or group of armies,it will change
shape to indicate that you can select the top army. Just click the mouse
button once to select the army. You will hear a tone, and a small cursor will
appear around the selected army. A description of the selected army appears
in the Info Screen.

SELECT GROUP
 This is similar to SELECT ARMY, exept that you double click over the stack
of armies. Every army in the stack is now selected as a single group. You 
will hear a tone and a large cursor will appear around the stack. The Info
Screen will tell you that you have selected a group.

MOVE ARMIES
 Once a single army or stack of armies has been selected, moving the cursor
around the playing map will change the cursor to an arrow. To move your
armies, position the cursor over their destiation and click the mouse
button once. The armies will move to this point using the most efficient
route possible, using roads and avoiding obstacles. You can use the arrow
keys to scroll the map to bring your destination into view, and your armies
will try to get there. If they have a long way to go, move the cursor onto
the Stratigic Map, position it over your destination and click once. Your
armies will keep moving untill their movement allowance runs out.
 A maximum of eight armies may stack in a single squair. Under no circumstances
can additional armies enter a square with eight armies, nor can they move
through. Refer to Section 5.2 for more detials on stacking.
                             < 8 >
 If an army, or stack of armies, uses all of its movement allowance in a
turn, then the next army or stack will be selected automatically. If you
wish to end an army's (or stack) move before all of the movement allowance
is used, you must deselect the army as explained below.

DESELECT ARMY
 Whenever an army or a group of armies is selected, you must deselect it
before selecting a new army. Do this by clicking on the top button (a flag
with a cross through it) in the command bar in the center of the screen.
Armies are automatically deselected if they run out of movement points,
or cannot move. Armies remain selected even if they are scrolled off the
map, so be carful to deselect them before proceeding to another army.

PRODUCTION
 The PRODUCTION command is used to create armies. To select a city for
production, you must first issue the PRODUCTION command by clicking on the
picture of the sword and the shield in the Command Bar. You must then
position the cursor over a friendly city (notice that it becomes a small
castle as you do so) and click once; production information for the city
will be displayed in the Info Screen. You have four options: PRODuce an
army, send a produced army to another LOCation, STOP production, or EXIT
without making any changes.
 To produce an army, click on its picture on the left hand side, and then
on the PROD button (on the right hand side). To obtain information about
an army type, double click on its picture on the left.
 To direct a city's production to another location, select the army from
the available types on the left, but instead of clicking on the PROD
button, click on the LOC button. You can now click on another city that
you own, and the army will appear there instead. A maximum of four cities
may direct their production to any one other city. Armies appearing in
another city take an aditional two turns to arrive. See Appendix for
full city details.
 To stop an army being produced, just click on the stop button.
 To exit the production display without doing anything, click on the
EXIT button.
 If all you wish to do is examine what army is being produced, select the
PRODUCTION command, see what's happening, then click on the EXIT button.
                               < 9 >

 If you click on the PROD button then click on a castle that has transfered
its production, the destination castle will be hig`lig`ted on the Stratigic
Map. If you click on a receiving castle in the production phase, the
sending castle will be hig`lig`ted.

MAP INFORMATION
 Whean no army is selected, and the cursor is over an empty location on the
Playing Map, it will change to a question mark. If you click the button now,
it will give you information about the location you have clicked over. This
is particularly useful for finding out about cities, ruins and temples. If
you want information about a location underneath an army, just hold down the
shift key; the cursur will now show a question mark no matter where on the
Playing Map it is moved.

VIEW
 When the cursor is moved over the Stratigic Map, is becomes a magnifying
glass. Clicking in this window will change the view shown on the Playing
map. This is a very quick way of looking around the countryside.

ATTACK
 You can only ATTACK when your current army or armies are next to an enemy
army, an enemy city, or a neutral city. Select the unit with which you wish
to attack, and then move the cursor over the enemy. The cursor will change
into a sword. Click once, and the battle will start. You will not be allowed
to launch an attack unless your army (or stack) has at least two unused
movement points.

MOVE MAP
 You can use the arrow keys to scroll the Playing Map, and the space bar to
center the Playing Map on the currently selected unit.

INFO
          Click on this button to hig`lig`t on the Stratigic Map the location
  [ ? ]   of all of your Armies. Armies colored white have used all their 
          movement allowance. Armies colored red have some movement remaining.

NEXT
 [ Nxt ]  Click on the NEXT button to select the next army stack.

QUIT
 [ Quit ] Click on the QUIT button to remove an army from the cycle for this
          turn and then select the next available army.
DEFEND
 [ Def ]  Click on the DEF button to remove an army from the cycle until it is
          subsequently selected again by the player.
                                 < 10 >

 These last three commands may not seem very useful at the start of the game,
but as the time goes on and the number of armies increases dramatically, they
will become more and more useful.

4.3.2 Orders

BUILD
 By using the BUILD action, you can either build towers to help defend your
troops when they are outside the city walls, or you can strengthen your cities
by raising their defence value. Issue the command to BUILD when your currently
selected army is located where you wish to build. That is, you must select an
army to build the tower or strengthen your city. Towers may only be built on
plains. Building is never cheap, so you will be told the cost, and prompted
whether you still wish to build.

CAPITAL
 The CAPITAL action will return your view in the Playing Map back to your
capital city. This is initially set to the city you start with. If you lose
this city then Warlords will automatically calculate a new capital for you.

DISBAND
 The DISBAND action is used for disbanding your army units and removing them
from the game. Use this command when a single unit or a stack is selected. It
is particularly useful for getting rid of exess troops, so that you no longer
have to pay any upkeep for them. You cannot disband a hero.

RAZE
 The RAZE action is used to destroy cities and towers, Turning them into ruins.
Once they are destroyed, they can never be rebuilt - even by a BUILD action. To
raze somthing, issue the RAZE action when your currently selected army is in the
city you wise to raze. Again, you must select an army to do the razing. You will
be asked to confirm your choise, since razing one of your cities is a rather
serious business.

4.3.3 Hero Actions
 
TAKE
 The TAKE action is used by Heroes when they wish to pick up an item. Make sure
that the Hero (or his stack) is selected, and then issue the TAKE action. You
                                 < 11 >

will now be presented with a list of items that the hero may take. Click on the
UP and DOWN buttons to scroll this list, until the item you wish to pick up is
hig`lig`ted. Click on OK, and your hero will now have the item. If you do not
wish to take anything, he does not automatically pick it up. You must use the
TAKE action to make him do this. There is no limit to the number of items a
hero may carry.

DROP
 The DROP action is similar to the TAKE action above, exept that it allows a
hero to drop a selected item. Make sure the hero is the only selected unit,
and issue the drop action. Once again you will receive a list of items to drop.
Scroll up and down, until the item you wish to drop is hig`lig`ted, and then
click on OK. If you do not wish to drop anything, click on the CANCEL button.
Use this action when you want to transfer an item from one hero to another;
i.e. drop the item and move away with the first hero, move in and pick up the
item with the second hero.

SEARCH
 Use the SEARCH action to make heroes search special locations (such as
temples and ruins). This is usually how magic items are found, and magical
allies discovered. It can also be used to receive a blessing, and gather
information from libraries and sages. Chapter 11 discusses special items
in more detail.
 To search, you must generally have a hero in a stack (exeptions to this are
covered below). Simply move the hero into the location to be searched, and
issue the SEARCH command. You will discover the results of the search in the
info screen.
 The only time that armies may search, is when they are at a temple. If a
selected group of armies (none of them need be heros) searches at a temple
then they will receive a blessing - for free! However, each army can receive
only one blessong from each temple. There are four temples. A blessing raises
an army's strength by 1.

FIND
 The FIND action displays all of your heroes on the Stratigic Map. Click the
left mouse button or hit any key to continue.

INVENTORY
 Issue the INVENTORY action when a hero is selected. A list of the items being
carried by that hero will be displayed in a dialog box. Click on OK or CANCEL
to return to the game.
                                  < 12 >

4.3.4 Reports
 Reports give infromation about the current status of a game of Warlords.
After reading a report, you must click the mouse or hit any key to continue.
To activate a report, select REPORTS from the Menu Strip and then the specific
report you wish to look at.

ARMIES
 The ARMIES report will display a graph in the info screen showing how many
armies each player has. Small colored dots, corresponding to player colors,
will appear on the Strategic Map to identify the location of all armies in
play.

CITIES
 The CITIES report will display a graph in the info screen showing how many
cities each player has. Small colored dots, corresponding to player colors,
will appear on the Stratigic Map to identify the ownership of all cities.
Dull grey cities are neutral (or razed!).

GOLD
 The GOLD report will display a graph in the info screen showing how much
gold each player has.

HATRED
 Each compute player in the game has a particular attitude to you. The best
you can hope for will be apathy, the worst is outright loathing. These attitudes
vary with the time, and as a result of your interactions with the other players,
and are very important. The attitudes, in order of increasing severity, are
Apathy, Distrust, Dislike, Distain, Disgust, Hatred and Loathing.

PRODUCTION
 The PRODUCTION report will display a graph in the info screen showing the
percentage of cities which are producing for each player. Only your cities are
identified on the Strategic Map. White cities are producing for each player.
Only your cities are identified on the Strategic Map. White cities are producing
inside. Yellow cities are producing at another location. Red cities are not
producing at all.

WINNING
 The WINNING report will display a graph in the info screen showing how well
each player is performing at the moment.
                                  < 13 >

4.3.5 Game Features
 These actions are activated from either the ABOUT, GAME or TURN lines in the
Menu Strip.

ABOUT
 The ABOUT action will give you some brief information about the game and its
designers. Click the mouse button to get past it.

OBSERVE ON/OFF
 The OBSERVE ON action allows you to watch the operations of all other players.
Turning it off will speed up the time taken for the computer to complete the
operations of the other players.

SOUND ON/OFF
 Swith the sound on or off to suit yourself.

LOAD
 The LOAD action will allow you to reload a previously saved game.

SAVE
 The SAVE action will let you save a game, so that it can be resumed at a later
time.

QUIT
 The QUIT action is used to exit Warlords. Just in case you change your mind,
you will be prompted first.

END TURN
 When you have finished all operations for one turn, issue the END TURN action.
You must use the action to end a turn!

AUTO CENTER
 This action is not found on any of the menus. It will display your currently
selected army in the center of the Playing Screen. Hit the SPACE BAR to call
this action, or click on the Center (Ctr) icon in the Command Bar.
                                 < 14 >

5. ARMIES

5.1 Introduction to Armies
 Armies play a very large part in Warlords. Without them you could not take
over cities, or defend yourself from marauding opponents. There are three main
types of armies; ordinary armies such as infantry and cavalry, special armies
such as dragons and wizards, and heroes.
 A complete list and description of all sixteen army types appears in the
Appendix.

5.2 Stacking
 Up to eight armies may be in the same location at the same time. This will
be indicated by the length and location of the army flags. The first four armies
in a stack are indicated by the increasing length of the top flag. A fifth
army is indicated by a short bottom flag, and a short top flag. Thereafter, the
sixth, seventh and eighth armies of the stack are indicated by the increasing
length again of the top flag. Thus, stacks with four or less armies have only
one flag, those with five or more have two.
 Armies at a location need not be of the same type; for instance you could have
one cavalry, one giant, a dragon and a hero. However, a stack will move at the
speed of the slowest army for each particular terrain type encountered. If a
terrain type is prohibited for any unit in a stack, then the whole stack will
be prevented from entering.

5.3 Army Info
 When an army is selected, information about it will be displayed on the info
screen:
Name - The name of the owner;i.e. you
Strength - The number of strength points that a single unit has. This is on a
scale from one to nine, where one is very weak and nine is very tough.
Movement - The number of movement points that the unit has remaining.
Army Identity - The name of the unit (e.g."Sirian 3rd Marthos Cavalry").

5.4 Getting Armies
 There are sixteen types of armies, each with its own strengths and weaknesses.
There are three different ways of getting these armies: production, alliance
and hiring.
 Production means actually training in a city. Production is used to get
ordinary armies. Ordinary armies are Light Infantry, Elven Archers, Giant
Warriors, Dwaven Legions, Cavalry, Wolf-Riders, Navies, Pegasi and Griffins.
 In the Appendix you will find a table which lists which cities produce which
armies and the ratings of those armies.
 Alliances are made when a hero searches a special location (a temple or a ruin)
and discovers some creatures that wish to join him. Alliances are made with
Special Armies. Special Armies are Wizards, Undead, Demons, Devils, and Dragons.
                                   < 15 >

 Heroes in Warlords are all hired swords. From time to time a hero will turn
up in one of your cities and offer himself for employment. He will quote a sum
in cash, paid in advance,(it's a risky business) and you may accept or reject
his offer. The more heroes you have on the payroll at the time, the higher the
asking price is likely to be. The only exeption to this is the hero who starts
the game on the first turn, and comes free of charge. Heroes who are hired
may bring allies with them as will.

6. PLAYING THE GAME

6.1 Starting Conditions
 All players, computer and human, begin Warlords in similar circumstances.
You will have one city (your capital), and a hero, whose name you will be
prompted for. You will also have an amount of money, but this varies between
the players; for instance, Dwarves will have much treasure, and the giants
little.

6.2 A Sample Turn
 Any turn in Warlords can be broken down into the following parts.
(1). At the very beginning of your turn a fanfare will sound; you must hit the
left button or any key to continue.
(2). If a hero offers himself for employment this turn, you will be informed.
If you want to accept his offer you will be prompted to name him.
(3). You will be told about any armies that have been produced this turn. You
will be shown on the map screen where they were produced (the city will be
highlighted), and then asked wether you wish to keep producing these units at
that location. Click on YES or NO accordingly. The END REPORT button skips the
production reports for the rest of the turn.
(4). You will receive your money for this turn, and you will be told if you have
you out of money. For more details on money see Chapter 7.
(5). This is the main part of the turn. All commands from Chapter 4 are
available to you here. Most of the turn, however, you will be doing three
things -
 (a). Giving production orders (see Chapter 8)
 (b). Moving armies (see Chapter 9)
 (c). Attacking enemies (see Chapter 10)
(6). Lastly, you must end your turn. Do this by issuing the END TURN command
from the turn menu.
(7). Before your next turn begins, all other players must move. If any player
attacks you, you will be shown the combat any its results. After this, the
fanfare will sound and you are ready to begin play again.
                                 < 16 >

7. MONEY

7.1 Income and Expenditure
 In Warlords, you are controlling an empire just like a real empire, there
is never enough money. How do you get money? There is basically one solution,
capture cities. You start the game with some gold, but after this, almost
all gold is generated by cities.
 Each city has an income associated with it, which represents trade and taxes.
You can find out this income by clicking oa a city. If you own a city, its
income will be added to your tally of gold at the beginning of every turn.
Thus, if you owned three cities generating 20gp,25gp and 28gp respectively
(where gp stands for gold pieces), you would receive 73gp at the start of
your turn. You can see your total income at the start of each turn.
 An Empire's treasury is considered to be distributed equally amongst all of
its cities. If a city is captured, the Empire loses a proportional amount of
its total treasury. Half of this money goes to the Empire that captured the
city; the other half is considered to be liberated by the troops that did
the pillaging!
 Sages can also reward questing heroes with money, as well as information.
 Where does the money go? Chiefly the money goes to supporting your troops,
although you must also pay to produce them. It costs half as much to support
an army each turn as it did to produce it; thus if it costs 4gp to produce a
unit of heavy infantry, it will cost 2gp to support it every turn (for more
information on production costs, see chapter 8). Money may also be spent on
building towers, increasing city defenses and hiring heroes.

7.2 Lack of Money
 Lack of money is a very serious problem. This is not often the case early
in the game, but as your empire expands, you may find it has grown too fast!
Without money you cannot build troops, thus you cannot defend your borders
when they become weak. More importantly, you cannot defend your interior from
sudden incursions by the enemy. If you are in a deficit situation, you must
take action immediatly. Disbanding troops will save a lot of money, and is
often the only way out.

8. PRODUCTION

8.1 Description of Production
 Production is the training, recruiting and building of armies to prepare them
for battle. Chapter 4 has already described the PRODUCTION command, but here
is a slightly more detailed look at producing armies. See Appendix for ful city
production information.
 Each city may produce one army at a time, or it may choose to produce nothing.
Each of the eight cities in the lands of Illuria has different armies it can
produce, with each army having individual statistics. For instance, the cavalry
produced by Enmouth move faster than the heavily armoured cavalry produced by
the Sirians in Marthos.
                                 < 17 >

 Once you are in PRODUCTION mode and you have clicked on a city, you will see
production information for that city appear in the info screen. On the left
you will see up to four entries that look like this.
 [ 3t/4gp ] This indicates that an army will cost 4gp to produce, and will be
ready in three turns (3t). As indicated in Chapter 7, this army will cost half
of 4gp (i.e.2gp) to support every turn. Clicking on the army and then on the
PROD button will cost you 4gp and will begin production for you. Clicking on
the LOC button instead of the PROD button will cost you the same, exept that
you will now be able to click on a different city where the army will appear
when produced! The unit will be produced in the same number of turns, but will
then take an extra two turns in administrative movement to reach the nominated
city.
 Below the production buttons on the rigth of the Info Screen is one of three
messages.
 [ Current: 2t ] The first message tells you that the city is producing an army
that will be ready in two more turns (2t).
 [ Current: None ] The second message tells you that the city is not producing
anything.
 [ Current: 2t-Loc ] The third message tells you that the city is producing an
arny which will be ready in three turns and will appear in another city! If you
look at the map screen, that city will be highlighted. This is the result of
using the LOC action instead of the PROD action.
 To leave a city without altering its production, click on the EXIT button. You
will be returned to the normal mode of play and nothing will be changed.
 Clicking on the STOP button will stop a city producing the army shown in
CURRENT, and return you to normal mode. If no army is currently being produced
STOP will just return you to normal mode.
 Produced armies are given to you at the begining of your turn. The city where
they are being produced will be highlighted in white on the map screen, and a
message will appear in the info screen such as.
                     [ Enmouth 3rd Cavalry Produced! ]
                     [     Keep Producing These?     ]
 The options YES and NO appear beneath these messages. To keep a city producing
its current army, click on the YES button. This automatically deducts the cost
of production from your gold and starts producing the next army.
 Clicking on the NO button will stop the city producing another one of these
armies. It will now be producing nothing.
                               < 18 >

 The production message may also read somthing like.
                     [ Enmouth 3rd Cavalry - Kazrack ]
                     [     Keep Producing These?     ]
 This means that the Enmouth 3rd Cavalry has been produced for Kazrack, and will
appear in that city in two turns. When that happens you will get the message.
                   [ Enmouth 3rd Cavalry reaches Kazrack ]

9. MOVING

9.1 Movement Points
 In order for an army to move in Warlords it must have enough movement points to
get to its new location. Movement points might be better described as "potential
for movement". In other words, they indicate how far an army can move in one
turn. A unit of heavy infantry has low movement points; a unit of cavalry has
high movement points since it is on horseback.
 Different types of units have different movement points. Even units of the same
type may have slightly different movement points; for instance the Pegasi of
Elvillie have more movement points that the Pegasi of Loremark.
 Different types of terrain will use different amounts of movement points. Roads
are easy to travel along, and thus generally use less movement points that a
forest. Some units find it easier than others to move in some terrain, and so
their movement costs will be different. For example, it is far easier for an
Elf to move through forest than a Dwarf. Consult the table in the Appendix for
specific movement costs.
 Each turn a unit will regenerate its movement points. If it had any left over
last turn, a few of these may also carry over to the new turn.

9.2 Illegal Moves
 An army may never move into any of the following places.
(1). Any terrain type marked forbidden for that unit type.
(2). Off the edge of the Strategic Map.
(3). Onto an enemy army, or into an enemy or neutral city. These locations must
be fought for rather than moved into.
(4). Onto or through one or more of your own armies if that would result in more
than eight armies in that location.
                                < 19 >

9.3 Movement in Stacks
 When armies move in a stack, they have as many movement points as the slowest
army (i.e. the one with the least movement points), and they also use the
movement cost of the army with the highest cost for each terrain type entered.
 There are exeptions to this rule. A hero may travel with any army using that
Army's movement cost. Thus Dragons may fly a hero over mountains; they will not
get there full eighteen movement points though, only the hero's twelve.
 A Navy may transport up to seven land based units over the water. The Navy
ignores the movement points of the armies it carrries, and moves as if it were
empty.

10. ATTACKING

10.1 Description of Attacking
 Attacking is defined as the act of trying to physically destroy an enemy army
(or stack) by moving one or more of your armies into the same location as the
enemy. Attacking costs two movement points. You cannot attack with less than
this number remaining. As explained in Chapter 9, you cannot move onto or
through an enemy army, you must fight it.
 Attacking is also the only was of capturing cities. If you attack an enemy city
and all of the enemy armies are destroyed, or none were present, then you will
have captured that city.

10.2 Strength Points
 Every Army has a number of strength points. This is an indication of how well
that unit fights; for example a unit of Light Infantry will generally rate
about three points, Cavalry will rate about six points, while dragons rate nine
points. When two armies attack one another, these attack points will be compared
to see who wins. An armies attack points are displayed in the info Screen when
that army is selected (by itself, not in a stack).
 Armies foght much better when in groups, but be warned; even four heavy
infantry each of five strength will find it though going against one army of
dragons with nine strength points. In other words, the combat system favours
quality of army more than it does quantity. Be warned, however, the lowliest
light infantryman is capable of destroying the fiercest dragon! just don't
count on it.

10.3 Attacking Cities
 There are two distinct cases when attacking cities: enemy cities and neutral
cities. Both types have defence points. These are a measure of how good the
city's defences are;e.g. how strong and high the walls are. The defence points
are on a scale from one to nine, and the higher the city's defence, the harder
it will be to capture it. Defence can be increased at any time with the build
command (and enough gold).
 When attacking enemy cities, it is necessary to defeat all enemy troops within
                               < 20 >

that city. Attacking any portion of a city involves all troops that are located
in that city. Thus, although you can only attack with a maximum of eight armies
at any one time, the enemy can defend with up to thirty-two armies.
Nevertheless, they will soon be worn down if enough groups of eight attack.(Or
starved out; huge garrisons eat up vast quantities of gold and a player who
tries to maximize his garrisons everywhere will soon be in the poor house.)
 Neutral cities are different. They fly a grey flag and have a poorly committed
garrison inside (usually!). Whenever you attack a neutral city, there is a
chance it will fall, and a chance your army will be killed. You can increase the
odds in your favor by improving the quality and the number of your troops. A
Hero or other high class army on its own will usually prevail over a neutral city.

10.4 How the Combat System Works
 A full explanation of the combat mechanics is provided in the Appendix. You
don't need to know all these details to play the game, but a glance through them
will give you a good idea of the combat bonuses available and the value of
A-Team stacks to take out particular objectives.
 In general, you should be aware that combat bonuses are available for stacks
which include flying armies (pegasi,griffins or dragons), special armies
(undead, wizards, etc.), and heroes. Further bonuses are awarded to heroes who
possess Battle or Command Artifacts (see Chapter 11).
 Cities and towers aid defence while certain terrain types can help (or
sometimes hinder) the different army types.
 A typical A-Team stack could consist of onf hero (with Battle and Command
Artifacts), one wizard, one or two griffins and four or five giant warriors.
You will do plenty of damage with these dudes before their luck runs out!

11. SEARCHING AND ARTIFACTS

11.1 Description of Searching
 In general, searching is performed by a Hero, either on his own or in a stack.
Searching is done for a variety of reasons which are described below, but
largely it is done at special locations to find either artifacts, allies,
information or gain some other advantage for that hero. It is not easy, however,
for many of these ruins and temples are infested by fearsome monsters, which
must be slain before the ruin can be searched. Searching at one of these
locations will cost the hero all his remaining movement points for that turn.
For a description of the SEARCH action see Chapter 4.
                                < 21 >

 To get info on a special location, just click on that location. The status
value tells you what is there: Healers, Sages, or Libraries, or whether it is
explored or unexplored. If status says explored, then another Hero has already
been here. If it reads unexplored, then there are still monsters and other
things in that location.

11.2 Where to Search
 The larger buildings which heroes are able to search contain healers, sages
and libraries. The smaller buildings generally contain monsters treasures,
although Allies may be found there also.

11.3 The Artifacts
 Artifacts are either used for increasing a hero's strength in combat (Battle
items), or for increasing his leadership abilities (Command Items). There are
fourteen such powerful artifacts in the lands of Illuria, many far stronger
than others, all of which are listed below.

11.3.1 Battle Artifacts of Moderate Power (+1)
 The Firesword, The Icesword, The Spear of Ank

11.3.2 Battle Artifacts of Considerable Power (+2)
 The Lightsword, The Darksword, The Bow of Eldros

11.3.3 Battle Artifacts of Supreme Power (+3)
 The Staff of Might

11.3.4 Command Artifacts of Moderate Power (+1)
 The Crown of Loriel, The Sceptre of Loriel, The Orb of Loriel,
 The Crimson Banner

11.3.5 Command Artifacts of Considerable Power (+2)
 The Ring of Power, The Horn of Ages

11.3.6 Command Artifacts of Supreme Power (+3)
 The Staff of Ruling

11.4 Actions Relating to Artifacts
 There are five actions related to artifacts; search, take, drop, find and
inventory. They are discussed in Chapter 4.

11.5 Libraries
 There are two libraries in Illuria; one on the island in the middle of Lake
Hithil, and the other in the north west corner by the Mindanuin Wastland. If
a hero searches at a library, it will cost all his remaining movement points.
Searching here costs no gold, but you are not guarantied to find out anything
useful.
 You will either discover the whereabouts of an item or a monster, alternatively
you may just find a piece of ancient wisdom.

11.6 Sages
 There are two sages in Illuria. One is in the middle of the Plain of Dragons,
over the Illonne Mountains. The other is on the banks of the River Rapid, hidden
away in the mountains. Sages will provide accurate information if you SEARCH
there, but first must be reached (they are both in strange places). You can
question them on the location of items, and the inhabitants of any special
locations. Sages will reward the first seeker after knowledge to reach them.

11.7 Blessing
 Blessing is available at any of the four temples, distributed through the lands
of Illuria. This is not only for heroes, but for any army unit which can reach
a temple. Simply move the units (in a group if there are more than one) to the
temple, and then SEARCH. This takes all remaining movement points and every
unit will be blessed. This will raise its strength by one. Blessings at the
different Temples are cumulative in effect, up to the maximum strength of nine.
The computer knows which armies have been blessed at which temples, so it's no
good trying to overdose on religion!

12. HOW TO WIN
 These remarks on how to win assume that you are playing against computer
Warlords. Lesser computer opponents (and most humans) are far more forgiving.
 The start of the game is a race to control as many neutral castles as you
can. Send your Hero out to get as many as possible, get each captured castle
to make the troop type that is quickest to manufacture, and get those those
troops out fighting as well. If you have selected high level computer
opponents, you will notice them doing the same thing. Heroes should also
search out ruins and temples (their location can be found on the accompanying
map). Special army allies can be deadly in the early game. Be warned, however,
that your hero may parish while searching these places.
 After the conquest of the neutrals, it is time to take stock of the situation.
As a single player you will face up to seven potential foes. It is therefore an
absolute necessity to determine how your potential enemies feel about you. Use
the Hatreds command frequently to check out the diplomatic climate. Enimies who
hate or loath will be trying to do something about it. If they are close, you
should consider trying to eliminate them completely. If they are far away, just
keep a close eye on them.
 There is nothing you can do to improve relations with other players. On the
other hand, taking a city from a player will definitly cause relations to
deteriorate. Therefore, you should not attack computer players unless you have
a good reason to do so. Since an attack in any force is bound to leave an
                               < 23 >

opponent hating you anyway, an attack should aim for total annihilation of your
opponent. It also follows that if an opponent who is not your current target and
who doesn't hate you takes one of your cities, it may be better to let him have
it for the moment. He is probably just on his way to attack someone else.
 As well as diplomatic questions, many of your problems will be monetary. Each
unit costs half its purchase price each turn in maintenance. The temptation will
be to maintain strong forces in all parts of your empire. This will be very
expensive, possibly ruinously so. As a rule of thumb, a garrison of four light
infantry or their equivalent will be sufficient. It won't stop a determined
attack, but will guard against cheap attacks.
 Obviously, castles in the front line will need more by way of defences. You 
will also have to look at the state of the walls. Each time a siege is 
successful, the castle defence factor is lowered by one. If the factor gets
below 3, the castle will not provide  much of a bonus, and consideration should
be given to building it up, expensive though this will be.
 Serious sieges will require a lot of planning. Use the production vectoring
capacity to quickly build up forces at a jumping-off point. If your target is
heavily defended, you will probably need several waves of attackers to finish
the job. All except the last attack wave in a successful siege will die, so make
sure you have plenty of cannon fodder. Commit your crack troops only when you
are certain of victory. Although it's generally a good idea to keep stacks
homogeneous, the addition of certain units can provide advantages to lesser
troops. Blessing is also very useful, especially if done more than once, and
heroes with magic items can also make a big difference.
 Your Heroes should be sent out to gather as many magic items as possible.
Some will die along the way, but Heroes can gather items, info, allies and
money, so they should always have something to do. If you see an enemy hero
alone or lightly defended, consider an ambush. You never know what he will be
carrying!

13. STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES
 Here is a brief summary of the various Empires in the Kingdom of Illuria.

Lord Bane
(Slow and Safe)
 It is unlikely that you will have any cause for computers to hate you due
to your isolation. A steady build-up and a careful look around you will
determine the best way to approach the conquest of Illuria. The Orcs of Kor,
the Horse Lords and the Dwarves are your most likely opponents.
                                   < 24 >

The Selentines
(Lords of the North-West)
 The main objective is to seal off the  north-west corner of the kingdom as
quickly as possible. The key cities in the forest must be taken quickly and
flying horses (Pegasi) can be used to capture the island. Care must be taken
to stop any incursions from the Dwarves and the Horse Lords.

The Dwarves
(Take to the Hills)
 Expand. Fast. In all directions, looking for opportunities as they arise. A
lightning thrust on the Horse Lords may see you with one less opponent. No
matter what, you will end up with enemies on all sides but you have the men
(dwarves?) to handle the situation.

The Horse Lords
(Fast and Loose)
 You have horses, use them. Send them north and south. Make all the cities
around Deephallow yours while at the same time striking south to Ilnyr. No
matter how peaceable you'd like to be, your position is certain to arouse the
ire of your neibours. Get stuck into the Grey Dwarves from the start.

The Orcs of Kor
(Ideal Real Estate)
 A quick expansion with an eye to the north, west and south will set you up
in a strong position. You have to go north to curtail Lord Bane's expansion
and then south until you run into either the sirians or the Elvallie. Don't
start fights with more than three of these three opponents.

The Strom Giants
(Slow and Tough)
 It is very hard with your two-turn men to get quickly a sizeable empire. Go
for the cities to the north, west and south where there is unlikely to be any
opposition. Build a powerful base before striking out. The Elvallie are your
most dangerous foe and all things being equal you should attempt to knock them
over first.

The Elvallie
(Learn to Hate)
 You really have to go out and grab everything you can, even if this causes
others to hate you (they will anyway). Take opportunities as they present
themselves and look for a quick demise to the Sirians or the Storm Giants.
Get all the forest cities first.
                                 < 25 >

The Sirians
(Down and Dirty)
 With the Orcs on one side, the Elves on the other and with no friends in
the world you face the hard realities of life. A bit of luck and auspicious
diplomatic conjunctions and you could be on a winner. Go for either the
horse cities to the north, or the area to the east, or even both if you can.
When you can win the game against seven computer Warlords as the Sirian, then
consider yourself a Warlord par Excellence.

14. SURRENDER
 In the games where one human player is fighting seven computer opponents, the
surviving computer players will attempt to surrender if the human player has
more than 40 cities and the most powerful computer player is not within 15
cities of this number.
 If you accept the surrender play will proceed to the victory ceremony. If you
refuse to accept the surrender, play will continue to the bitter end. In
desperation, the remaining computer players will band together untill the
human player is annihilated or until they perish from the face of the earth.

15. DESIGN CREDITS
Original Design and Amiga Programming - Steve Fawkner
Artificial Intelligence Design and Programming - Roger Keating
IBM Development and Programming - Stephen Hart
Production Co-Ordinator and Additional Development - Gregor Whiley
IBM Utilities - Simon Hayes
Computer Art - Graeme Whittle
Sleeve Art - Nick Stathopoulos
Game Testing - Janeen Andrews, Richard Simpson, Mark Hill, Tim Wakeman, Karl-
Peter Baum, Andrew Taubman, Rowan Keating, Tim Reichelt, Alex Shaw, Anthony
Pearson and Ian "Orc-lover" Trout
                                < 26 >

                         A  P  P  E  N  D  I  X
CITY AND ARMY DETAILS (1)
CITY(Defense Value) CAPITAL      ARMY TYPES PERSENT (Time/Cost/Strength/Movement)
DESERTION    (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
ZAIGONNE     (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
BERERI       (6)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (6/8/6/16)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
TAL          (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
MINBOURNE    (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Navy    (11/20/4/18)
TIRFING      (4)    -            Lt Inf     (2/4/4/9)
AMENAL       (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
PARETH       (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (5/8/5/14)
UNGOR        (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
GORAG        (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
VIVAL        (3)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
BANE CTIADEL (6)    Lord Bane    Gaints    (4/4/6/10)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (4/8/6/16)  Wolves    (3/8/5/14)
NEEDLETON    (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
GUNTHANG     (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Archers   (3/4/4/12)
                                 Pegasi   (5/16/4/16)
DEEPHALLOW   (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
AK-GIRIEL    (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Archers   (3/4/4/12)
                                 Pegasi   (7/16/4/16)
AK-ENLIE     (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Archers   (3/4/4/12)
AK-FARZON    (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Archers   (3/4/4/12)
MENELOTH     (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (5/8/5/15)
MALIKOR      (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (6/8/6/13)
ENMOUTH      (6)    Selentines   Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (4/8/6/20)  Navy     (8/20/6/18)
ARGROND      (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/6/7)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
BARTHEL      (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
MARTON       (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/4/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)
WAYBOURNE    (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
DETHAL       (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Wolves    (5/8/5/14)
GREENWEIGH   (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Dwarves    (3/4/5/9)
UPWAY        (3)    -            Lt Inf    (2/4/3/10)
DARCLAN      (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Wolves    (3/8/5/14)
MARIDUN      (4)    -            Lt Inf    (2/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (3/8/6/18)
JESSARTON    (4)    -            Lt Inf    (3/4/2/10)  Navy    (12/20/3/18)
ZHORAN       (5)    -            Dwarves    (1/4/5/9)  Griffins (5/16/5/16)
KHAMAR       (6)    Dwarves      Dwarves    (2/4/5/9)  Griffins (5/16/6/18)
UPBOURNE     (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
CRAGMORTON   (4)    -            Dwarves    (2/4/5/9)  Griffins (7/16/5/16)
PAYNOR       (3)    -            Lt Inf    (2/4/3/10)
CARMEL       (5)    -            Lt Inf    (2/4/5/12)
DUNETHAL     (6)    Horse Lords  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (3/6/6/19)
DERRIDON     (4)    -            Lt Inf     (2/4/3/9)  Cavalry   (4/8/6/18)
FLEYMARK     (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (3/6/6/18)
                               < 27 >

                        A  P  P  E  N  D  I  X
CITY AND ARMY DETAILS (2)
CITY(Defense Value) CAPITAL      ARMY TYPES PERSENT (Time/Cost/Strength/Movement)
PA-KUR       (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (4/8/6/16)
AR_ARAK      (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (4/8/6/16)
DHAR-KHOSIS  (6)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Dwarves    (2/4/5/9)
                                 Griffins (6/16/5/16)
CIT OF FIRE  (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)
CIT OF ICE   (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)
HITHOS       (6)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (5/8/6/16)  Navy    (10/20/5/20)
UBAR         (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
GALIN        (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry  (8/10/6/16)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)
VERNON       (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (3/4/5/7)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (11/20/6/18)
THURTZ       (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Wolves    (3/8/5/14)
KAZRACK      (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)
KOR          (6)    Orcs of Kor  Gaints    (5/6/6/10)  Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)
                                 Wolves    (3/8/5/14)
ILNYR        (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)
OHMSMOUTH    (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Navy    (10/18/5/18)
HIMELTON     (3)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (6/8/5/16)
WELLMORE     (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
BALAD NARAN  (6)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)  Wolves    (2/8/6/15)
LADOR        (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
DUINOTH      (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (5/8/6/16)
STORMHEIM    (6)    Storm Giants Giants    (2/4/6/12)
ANGBAR       (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (4/8/5/16)
SSURI        (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (4/8/5/16)
TASME        (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
ARGENTHORN   (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Archers   (1/4/4/12)
                                 Pegasi   (7/16/4/16)
TROY         (3)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (4/8/6/15)
GAROM        (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Wolves    (3/8/5/14)
QUIESCE      (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Navy    (11/20/5/18)
VARDE        (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (5/8/5/16)
                                 Navy    (11/20/5/18)
CHARLING     (3)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
HEREUTH      (6)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Navy    (13/20/5/18)
ELVALLIE     (6)    Elvallie     Hvy Inf   (2/4/5/10)  Archers   (1/4/4/12)
                                 Pegasi   (6/16/4/16)
GILDENHOME   (5)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Archers   (1/4/4/12)
                                 Pegasi   (7/16/4/16)
KHORFE       (5)    -            Dwarves    (2/4/5/9)  Griffins (8/16/5/16)
GLUK         (4)    -            Giants    (3/4/6/10)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Wolves    (3/8/5/14)
LOREMARK     (4)    -            Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Archers   (1/4/4/12)
                                 Pegasi   (7/16/4/16)
GORK         (4)    -            Giants     (5/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Wolves    (3/8/5/14)
ALFAR'S GAP  (4)    -            Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)  Cavalry   (5/8/5/16)
MARTHOS      (6)    Sirians      Hvy Inf    (2/4/5/8)  Lt Inf    (1/4/3/10)
                                 Cavalry   (4/8/6/16)  Pegasi   (7/16/5/15)
                                 < 28 >

                         A  P  P  E  N  D  I  X
MOVEMENT COSTS
                         TERRAIN TYPE
                                      M
                                      O
                       B        F     U
                       R  W  S  O     N  P  M
                    R  I  A  H  R  H  T  L  A  C
                    O  D  T  O  E  I  A  A  R  I
                    A  G  E  R  S  L  I  I  S  T
                    D  E  R  E  T  L  N  N  H  Y
                   +----------------------------+
GIANTS             :1  1  P  P  5  4  P  2  5  1:
DWARVES            :1  1  P  P  6  3  P  2  6  1:
HEAVY INFANTRY     :1  1  P  P  4  6  P  2  5  1:
LIGHT INFANTRY     :1  1  P  P  4  6  P  2  5  1:
ELVEN ARCHERS      :1  1  P  P  2  5  P  2  6  1:
CAVALRY            :1  1  P  P  5  6  P  2  5  1:
WOLF-RIDERS        :1  1  P  P  4  6  P  2  4  1:
PEGASI             :2  2  2  2  2  2  3  2  2  2:
GRIFFINS           :2  2  2  2  2  2  3  2  2  2:
UNDEAD             :1  1  P  P  4  5  P  2  4  1:
DEMONS             :1  1  P  P  4  5  P  2  5  1:
DEVILS             :1  1  P  P  4  5  P  2  5  1:
DRAGONS            :2  2  2  2  2  2  3  2  2  2:
WIZARDS            :1  1  P  P  4  6  P  2  5  1:
HEROES             :1  1  P  P  4  6  P  2  5  1:
NAVIES             :P  2  1  2  P  P  P  P  P  P:
                   +----------------------------+
                                    P=PROHIBITED
                                  < 29 >

                         A  P  P  E  N  D  I  X
COMBAT MECHANICS
 Combat occurs whenever opposing armies (or stacks of armies) contest the
Ownership of a particular location. The computer follows a set routine for
each combat.

(1). An Attacking Force Combat Modifier (AFCM) is calculated. Five factors
are evaluated when calculating the AFCM.

(a). Hero Present. If the hero's combat strength is 0 to 3, the modifier
is 0. If the hero's combat strength is 4 to 6, the modifier is 1. If the
hero's combat strength is 7 or 8, the modifier is 2. If the hero's combat
strength is 9, the modifier is 3.

(b). Flying Army Present. If a Pegasus, Griffin or Dragon is present, the
modifier is 1.

(c). Special Army Present. If a Wizard, Undead, Demon, Devil or Dragon is
present, the modifier is 1.

(d). Command Item Present. If a hero (or heroes) with command item(s) are
present, the value of the command item(s) is added. For example, the Crimson
Banner has a command value of 2.

(e). Terrain Modifier. Troops from the different Empires have their likes
and dislikes in regard to where they prefer to fight. For example, the
Elvallie like forests but don't much care for hills or marsh. The Sirians
don't mind where they fight. Consult the following table for the correct
modifier.
 These modifiers, if any, are added together. Once calculated, the AFCM is
set aside for use later in the combat routine.

                                        TERRAIN TYPE

                                            F
                                      W  S  O     P  M
                                   R  A  H  R  H  L  A
                                   O  T  O  E  I  A  R
                                   A  E  R  S  L  I  S
                                   D  R  E  T  L  N  H
                                 +---------------------+
               SIRIANS           : .  .  .  .  .  .  . :
               STORM GIANTS      : .  .  .  . +1  . -1 :     
               GREY DWARVES      : .  .  . -1 +2  . -1 :
               ORCS OF KOR       : .  .  . -1  .  . +1 :
               ELVALLIE          : .  .  . +1 -1  . -1 :
               SELENTINES        : . +1 +1  .  .  .  . :
               HORSE LORDS       :+1  .  . -1 -1 +1  . :
               LORD BANE         : .  .  . -1  .  . +1 :
                                 +---------------------+
                                            .=NO EFFECT

(2). A Defending Force Combat Modifier (DFCM) is calculated. Eight factors
are evaluated when calculating the DFCM.

(a). Same as AFCM.

(b). Same as AFCM.

(c). Same as AFCM.

(d). Same as AFCM.

(e). Same as AFCM.

(f). Tower Present. If a tower is present, the modifier is 2.

(g). Special Terrain Present. If the battle occurs in a temple or ruin, the
modifier is 1.

(h). City Present. If the battle occurs in a city, the city defence modifier
is added. The modifier is 0 if the defence value is 0 or 1. The modifier is 1
if the defense value is 2 - 6. The modifier is 2 if the defense value is 7 or 8.
The modifier is 3 if the defense value is 9.
                                < 30 >

                        A  P  P  E  N  D  I  X
 These modifiers, if any, are added together. Once calculated, the DFCM is set
aside for use later in the combat routine.

(3). The Attack Strength (AS) of each attacking army is calculated. This is
found by adding together the combat value of the army, the AFCM, and a further
modifier for how will that army type likes to fight in that terrain. The
following table shows these modifiers. Finally, heroes add the value of any
Battle Item(s) carried. However, note that the maximum AS can never exeed 9 no
matter how large the modifier.

                 TERRAIN    (4). The Defense Strength (DS) of each defending
                 F          army is calculated. This is determined in the same
                 O     M    way as the AS. Again, note that the maximum DS can
                 R  H  A    never exeed 9 no matter how large the modifier.
                 E  I  R
                 S  L  S    (5). Combat is resolved. Attacking and Defending
                 T  L  H    armies are sorted on the display with the most
               +---------+  valuable armies on the right hand side. Combat is a
GIANTS         :-1  .  . :  series of one-on-one engagements between the left-
DWARVES        :-1 +1  . :  most army of each side. Each combat is fought to the
HEAVY INFANTRY :-1 -1 -1 :  death with the survivor going on to fight his
LIGHT INFANTRY :-1 -1 -1 :  opponents's next army.
ELVEN ARCHERS  :+1 -1 -1 :  The battle ends when one side is eliminated.
CAVALRY        :-1 -1 -1 :  The battle mecanics work like this. Each army rolls
WOLF-RIDERS    :-1 -1  . :  a ten-sided die (1-10). The result is low if the die 
PEGASI         :+1  .  . :  roll is less than or equal to his opponent's AS (or
GRIFFINS       : . +1  . :  DS as the case may be). The result is high if the
UNDEAD         :-1  . +1 :  die roll is greater than his opponent's AS (or DS).
DEMONS         :-1  .  . :   If both rolls are high or both rolls are low, then
DEVILS         :-1  .  . :  the step is repeated.
DRAGONS        : .  .  . :   If one rolls low and the other rolls high, then the
WIZARDS        : .  .  . :  low roller takes 1 hit. If the defender rolls high
HEROES         : .  .  . :  and the attacker rolls low, the defender takes 1 hit.
NAVIES         : .  .  . :   As soon as an army receives 2 hits it is destroyed.
               +---------+   That's it in a nutshell. A simple example may help to
               .=NO EFFECT  put it all in perspective.
 Consider a battle fought between the Grey Dwarves adn the Orcs of Kor. The Orcs
are defending a city of defense value 5 with 1 light infantry (each strength 3),
1 wolf-rider (strength 6) and a hero (Roger Orcfinger, strength 6) who carries
the Speak of Ank. The Grey Dwarves are attacking with 2 dwarven legions (each
strength 4), a griffin (strength 6) and a dragon (strength 8).
 The AFCM is calculated first. The Dwarves get 1 for a flying army (the griffin
or dragon) and 1 for a special army ( the dragon). Their AFCM is 2.
                               < 31 >

                       A  P  P  E  N  D  I  X

 Next comes the DFCM. The Orcs get 1 for Roger Orcfinger's strength of 6 and 1
for the city's defense value of 5. Their DFCM is also 2.
 We work out the AS or DS of each army.
 For the dwarves. The dwarven legions are 6, the griffin is 8 and the dragon is
9 (remember that 9 is the maximum value).
 For the Orcs. The light infantry is 5, the wolf-rider is 8 and Roger Orcfinger
is 9 (he gets an additional point from the Battle Item he carries). 
 The armies squair up as follows. From left to right the Dwarves have two 6's,
one 8 and one 9. The Orcs have one 5, one 8 and one 9.
 The battle begins with one dwarven legion taking on the light infantry. The
Orcs roll high, the Dwarves low; 1 hit  on the dwarven legion. Second round.
Both roll low; no effect. Third round. Again the Orcs roll high and the Dwarves
low; a second hit on the dwarven legion which destrys it.
 The next dwarven legion steps up to bat. It has more luck, inflicting 2 hits on
the light infantry but taking 1 on itself (i.e. 4th round=both high; no effect,
5th round=Orcs high, Dwarves low; 1 hit on the dwarven legion, 6th round=Orcs
low, Dwarves high; 1 hit on light infantry, 7th round=Orcs low, Dwarves high;
second hit on light infantry destroying it).
 The wolf-rider replaces the valiant but dead light infantry. It destroys the
dwarven legion but takes 1 hit itself (i.e. 8th round=both high; no effect, 9th
round=Orcs low, Dwarves high; 1 hit on wolf-rider, 10th round=Orcs high, Dwarves
low; second hit on dwarven legion destroying it).
 The Dwarves' magical griffin quickly despatches the wolf-rider (i.e. 11th
round=Orcs low, Dwarves high; second hit on wolf-rider destroying it).
 Roger Orcfinger steps into the breach, the last hope. He slaughters the griffin
with relish (i.e. 12th round= Orcs high, Dwarves low; 1 hit on griffin, 13th
round=Orcs high, Dwarves low; second hit on griffin destroying it).
 Now for the final show-down. Roger Orcfinger must take on the fearsome Dwarven
Dragon. The battle goes right down to the wire. Roger, desperatly wounded,
smites the dragon (i.e. 14th-18th rounds=both low; no effect, 19th round=Orcs
low, Dwarves high; 1 hit on Roger, 20th-23rd rounds=both low; no effect, 24th
round=Orcs high, Dwarves low; 1 hit on the dragon, 25th-26th rounds = both low;
no effect, 27th round=Orcs high, Dwarves low; second hit on the dragon
destroying it).
 Let's hear it for Roger Orcfinger! The battle is over. Roger has saved his
city. The hit he received during the battle will be healed automatically before
the next battle.
 Fortuitously, the computer takes only about 2 or 3 seconds to resolve a battle!
                                  < 32 >

                         A  P  P  E  N  D  I  X

LIGHT INFANTRY
 Light Infantry are the most common armies in Illuria. They wear light armour,
for maximum movement, and carry light weapons. They are poorly trained (except
for the monks of Carmel), and thus have low strength. They are the cheapest and
quickest troops to produce, and make exellent garrisons.

HEAVY INFANTRY
 Heavy Infantry are another common type of army. They are armed with sword and
shield, for greater strength, but wear heavy armour which slows them down. Use
them to garrison castles in the front line and for assaults on nearby
strongholds.

GIANT WARRIORS
 These armies are made up of Giants and Ogres. They wear good armour and carry
huge hammers and clubs, which can cause massive destruction. Although they often
take a long time to train, they are very effective warriors, and due to their
height they can move quite quickly.

DWARVEN LEGIONS
 Although they are short and move slowly on most terrain, the Dwarves are good
solid fighters with their double-bladed axes. They may not be as effective as
giants, but they are much quicker to train. In the hills, Dwarves begin to come
into their own; they move fast, and they fight well.

ELVEN ARCHERS
 The Elves are not that different to light infantry. They are lightly armoured,
and not very strong. In the forests of Illuria however, they move at twice the
speed of most armies, and will destroy much stronger opponents with their magic
bows.

WIZARDS
 Wizards are special armies. They are very powerful, and can often travel almost
half the width of Illuria in one turn on their phantom steeds.

CAVALRY
 Cavalry have one major advantage over most armies - speed. On a clear road, an
army of cavalry can travel for miles. They are also generally well armoured and
strong. For the best horsemen in Illuria, see the Selentines crack armies from
Enmouth. 

WOLFRIDERS
 The Wolfriders are mostly made up of Orcs riding on the huge wolves the
frequent the lands of Huinedor. They move fast, although not as fast as
cavalry, and due to the innate viciousness of rider and steed are quite strong.

NAVIES
 Navies are the only units that can travel the seas and rivers of Illuria. They
take a long time to construct, and are expensive to maintain, but they can
provide a fast way of transporting groups of armies around. A navy can carry a
maximum of seven other armies.

PEGASI
 The Pegasi, or flying horses, are generally owned and ridden by the Elves
(although the Sirians have them in Marthos too). They move quite quickly, and
fly over any terrain with ease. They are also quite proud and strong in combat.

GRIFFINS
 Just like the Pegasi, Griffins can fly over any obstacles. They are usually
found with dwarves, and, having quite a nasty temper, are very vicious in
combat. The ability of flying creatures to ignore terrain can have profound
strategic consequences.

UNDEAD
 These are the spirits of long dead lords, returned to seek power in their old
lands. They fight well, and will strike fear into the hearts of their opponents.

DEMONS
 Creatures from the Nether Planes, demons are fierce, tireless warriors,
dedicated to the destruction of all life on the world.

DRAGONS
 Dragons are the most feared creatures in all the lands of Illuria. Flying
great distances, they will often take over a city full of warriors.

DEVILS
 Devils are similar in appearance and motivation to demons. They too are Mighty
creatures from the Hells, fighting even better than the demons do.

HEROES
 Heroes begin their career as very formidable fighters. Their main strengths are
in leading armies and searching through ruins and temples for magical items. A
hero also uses rhe movement point total of any unit that he is stacked with.
Thus a hero stacked with flying creatures will also be able to move over rivers
and mountains.
                                  < 33 >


NOTE- These Docs were typed up to allow you to preview this software without
spending a large amount of money only too discover you don't like it! If you
enjoy the game I recommend you support the author by purchasing his product.
 These docs are complete though the original manual has a few cool pictures
I could not include in this format.


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
