 
                         Zeliard (C) Sierra 1990 .
          Cracked by UG . Thanks to HUMBLE GUYS for the original.                     

About Zeliard :
CRACK.EXE
Training by Fabulous Furlough .
TAB - Unlimited Shields & Life .

At The Bank

At the bank you can deposit and withdraw gold, or exchange almas
for gold. If you are depositing or withdrawing gold
from your account, use the up and down arrow keys to increase
and decrease the amount by one. Using the left and right
arrows will increase and decrease these amounts by ten.



In The Caverns


Using Your Weapon

To swing your sword, press the space bar. To swing upward, press
the up arrow key while swinging the sword. To swing low, press the 
down arrow key while swinging the sword. To thrust straight downward, 
press the up arrow , then press space an d down arrow simultaneously
(this move is difficult, and may require some pratice).



About Your Armor

You can find a selection of shields at the weapons shop. Each shield begins
with a specific number of damage points, which will decrease as your 
shield takes damage. If you can reach town before the shield breaks,
 the Weapons Master will repair it for you. Watch the ARMOR window 
to determine how many damage points remain.

The Inventory Screen

Press ENTER to access this screen. The items in the SPECIAL ITEMS
area will be used automatically as you need them. Items in the 
SPELLS and MAGIC ITEMS sections can be selected and used at will.
Use the joystick or arrow keys to select an item or spell, then
press the spacebar or fire button to select. Press
ENTER to leave the screen.

Using Magic

Magic potions and items can be purchased at the magic shop, and the
Sage at ech level (after Muralla Town) will reward you with a new
spell. To use these items and spells, press ENTER to access the
inventory screen. Use the arrow keys or joystick to select
what you want, then press the spacebar to activate it. Press
ENTER to return to the game screen. The active spell will be
displayed in the SPELL window, to cast the spell, press the ALT
key. Magic potions and items will take effect automatically.


Saving Your Game

To save your game, visit the Sage's hut (usually the only unmarked
building in town) and select RECORD. Type in a name, and press ENTER.
The game will be saved to the current disk and directory, with the
file extention .USR

Restoring Your Game

Saved games can be restored from any point by pressing the F7 key. Use
the joystick or arrow keys to select a saved game from the list, press
the spacebar to activate the game, then press ENTER. From DOS, saved
games can be loaded by typing ZELIARD followed by the name of the
saved game file (example:zeliardgame1). The game will be loaded, 
bypassing the opening sequence.

COMMAND KEYS

F1         toggles music on/off
F2         turns sound effects on/off
F9         adjust speed ( 0 =slow, 9= fast)
F7         restore game
ALT        cast spell
ENTER      see inventory screen
CTRL-J     select joystick control
CTRL-K     select keyboard control
CTRL-Q     quit game
SPACEBAR   use weapon (in caverns only)


-PC Cr<H>acker from UNITED GROUP . Thank`s to HUMBLE GUYS ! for the original .

