[ netinfo/asn-template.txt ]

Registering for an Autonomous System Number implies that you plan to
implement one or more gateways and use them to connect networks in the
DDN-Internet.  Please provide us with further details about your plans,
and with information about the administrative authority you have for
participating in the Internet.

It is strongly advised that you follow the development of
inter-autonomous systems protocols in the IAB task forces.

Send the completed application online to HOSTMASTER@NIC.DDN.MIL.
Or, if electronic mail is not available to you, please mail paper
copy to:

	DDN Network Information Center
	14200 Park Meadow Dr., Suite 200
	Chantilly, VA  22021

Questions may be addressed to the NIC Hostmaster by electronic mail at
the above address, or by phone at (800) 365-3642 or (703) 802-8400.

   To obtain an Autonomous System Number the following information
   must be provided:

   NOTE: The key people must have electronic mailboxes and NIC
   "Handles," unique NIC database identifiers.  If you have access to
   WHOIS, please check to see if you are registered and if so, make
   sure the information is current.  Include only your Handle and any
   changes (if any) that need to be made in your entry.  If you do not
   have access to WHOIS, or are not registered in the NIC WHOIS
   database, please provide all the information requested and a NIC
   Handle will be assigned.

   1) The name, title, mailing address, phone number, and organization
   of the administrative head of the organization.  This is the
   contact point for administrative and policy questions about the
   autonomous system.  In the case of a research project this should
   be the Principal Investigator.  The online mailbox and NIC Handle
   (if any) of this person should also be included.

      Example:

      Administrator

         Organization  Network Solutions, Inc.
		       Network Information Center
         Name          Lastname, Firstname
         Title         Principal Investigator
         Mail Address  Government Systems, Inc.
                       14200 Park Meadow Dr., Suite 200
                       Chantilly, VA  22021
         Phone Number  (XXX) XXX-XXXX
         Net Mailbox   pi@NIC.DDN.MIL
         NIC Handle    BB34 

   2) The name, title, mailing address, phone number, and organization
   of the technical contact.  The online mailbox and NIC Handle (if
   any) of the technical contact should also be included.  This is the
   contact point for problems with the autonomous system and for
   updating information about the autonomous system.  Also, the
   technical contact may be held responsible for the behavior of
   gateways in this autonomous system.

      Example:
  
         Technical Contact

            Organization  Network Solutions, Inc.
			  Network Information Center
            Name          Lastname, Firstname
            Title         Computer Scientist
	    Mail Address  Network Information Center
                          14200 Park Meadow Dr., Suite 200
                          Chantilly, VA  22021
            Phone Number  (XXX) XXX-XXXX
            Net Mailbox   cs@NIC.DDN.MIL
            NIC Handle    CC56

   3) The name of the autonomous system (up to 12 characters).  This
   is the name that will be used in tables and lists associating
   autonomous systems and numbers.

      Example: ALPHA-BETA

   4) A description of the gateway that implements the inter-autonomous
   system protocol for interaction with other autonomous systems.
   Currently the exterior gateway protocol (EGP) is being used for this
   purpose (RFC 904).  This gateway should comply with RFC 1009,
   Requirements for Internet Gateways.

      Example: This is a new gateway developed by the XYZ Group at the
      ABC Corporation.

      or

      Example: This is an instance of the well known IJK company
      gateway, but set up as a distinct autonomous system.

   5) A description of the gateway hardware, including CPU and
   interfaces.

      Example: DEC PDP-11/23, ARPANET Interface by ACC, Ethernet
      Interfaces by 3COM.

   6) A description of the gateway software, including operating
   system and languages.

      Example: The gateway is implemented using language "C" and runs
      Berkeley 4.2 Unix.

   7) The deployment schedule for the autonomous system.
         (a) initially,
         (b) within one year,
         (c) two years, and
         (d) five years.

            Example:

            (a) initially  =   1
            (b) one year   =   3
            (c) two years  =   5
            (d) five years =  10

   8) What networks will be interconnected by these gateways?  What
   are the internet addresses of each gateway?

      Example: One gateway, interconnecting MILNET and LEWIS-PRNET2,
      with address 26.7.0.159 on MILNET and 128.108.12.10 on LEWIS-PRNET2.

PLEASE ALLOW AT LEAST 8 WORKING DAYS FOR PROCESSING THIS APPLICATION

For further information contact the DDN Network Information Center
(NIC):

	      Via electronic mail:  HOSTMASTER@NIC.DDN.MIL
	      Via telephone:        1-800-365-3642  
	      Via postal mail:      DDN NIC
	                            14200 Park Meadow Dr., Suite 200
	                            Chantilly, VA  22021



		RECOMMENDED READING (available from the NIC)

Mills, D.L.  Exterior Gateway Protocol Formal Specification.  1984 April;
   RFC 904.  30 p. (NIC.DDN.MIL   RFC:RFC904.TXT).

Braden, R.T.; Postel, J.B.  Requirements for Internet Gateways. 1987 June;
   RFC 1009.  55 p. (NIC.DDN.MIL   RFC:RFC1009.TXT).

