From emoryu1!phoenix.Princeton.EDU!nancyamm  Thu Feb  3 23:34:49 1994 remote from awwe
Received: by awwe.UUCP (1.65/waf)
	via UUCP; Fri, 04 Feb 94 05:17:13 EST
	for root
Received: from emory.mathcs.emory.edu by
	emoryu1.cc.emory.edu (5.65/Emory_cc.3.4.16) via SMTP
	id AA24101 ; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:34:44 -0500
Received: from Princeton.EDU by
	emory.mathcs.emory.edu (5.65/Emory_mathcs.3.4.18) via SMTP
	id AA08407 ; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:34:35 -0500
Return-Path: nancyamm@phoenix.Princeton.EDU
Received: from ponyexpress.Princeton.EDU by Princeton.EDU (5.65b/2.104/princeton)
	id AA01548; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:16:14 -0500
Received: from flagstaff.Princeton.EDU by ponyexpress.princeton.edu (5.65c/1.113/newPE)
	id AA11736; Thu, 3 Feb 1994 23:16:12 -0500
Received: by flagstaff.Princeton.EDU (4.1/Phoenix_Cluster_Client)
	id AA09461; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:16:11 EST
Date: Thu, 3 Feb 1994 23:16:09 -0500 (EST)
From: Nancy Ammerman <emoryu1!phoenix.Princeton.EDU!nancyamm>
To: Jackie Ammerman <emory!emoryu1!awwe!root@phoenix.Princeton.EDU>
Message-Id: <Pine.3.89.9402032355.H3501-0100000@flagstaff.Princeton.EDU>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

Chapter 6: TELNET 


 
 
6.1  MINING THE NET


     Like any large community, cyberspace has its libraries, places you 
can go to look up information or take out a good book.  Telnet is one of 
your keys to these libraries. 
     Telnet is a program that lets you use the power of the Internet to 
connect you to databases, library catalogs, and other information 
resources around the world.  Want to see what the weather's like in 
Vermont? Check on crop conditions in Azerbaijan? Get more information 
about somebody whose name you've seen online? Telnet lets you do this, 
and more. 
     Alas, there's a big "but!''  Unlike the phone system, Internet is not 
yet universal;  not everybody can use all of its services.  Almost all 
colleges and universities on the Internet provide telnet access.   So do 
all of the for-fee public-access systems listed in Chapter 1. But the 
Free-Net systems do not give you access to every telnet system.  And if 
you are using a public-access UUCP or Usenet site, you will not have 
access to telnet. The main reason for this is cost.  Connecting to the 
Internet can easily cost $1,000 or more for a leased, high-speed phone 
line. Some databases and file libraries can be queried by e-mail, 
however; we'll show you how to do that later on. In the meantime, the 
rest of this chapter assumes you are connected to a site with at least 
partial Internet access. 
     Most telnet sites are fairly easy to use and have online help systems. 
Most also work best (and in some cases, only) with VT100 emulation.  
Let's dive right in and try one.
     At your host system's command line, type
 
          telnet access.usask.ca
 
and hit enter.  That's all you have to do to connect to a telnet site!  
In this case, you'll be connecting to a service known as Hytelnet, which 
is a database of computerized library catalogs and other databases 
available through telnet.  You should see something like this:
 
          Trying 128.233.3.1 ...
          Connected to access.usask.ca.
          Escape character is '^]'.
 
 
          Ultrix UNIX (access.usask.ca)
 
          login: 
 
 
     Every telnet site has two addresses -- one composed of words that 
are easier for people to remember; the other a numerical address better 
suited for computers.  The "escape character" is good to remember.  When 
all else fails, hitting your control key and the ] key at the same time 
will disconnect you and return you to your host system.  At the login 
prompt, type 
 
        hytelnet
 
and hit enter.  You'll see something like this:
 
                            Welcome to HYTELNET 
                                version 6.2  
                            ...................
                                                                               
   What is HYTELNET?         <WHATIS>     .        Up/Down arrows MOVE 
   Library catalogs          <SITES1>     .        Left/Right arrows SELECT
   Other resources           <SITES2>     .        ? for HELP anytime
   Help files for catalogs   <OP000>      .                
   Catalog interfaces        <SYS000>     .        m returns here
   Internet Glossary         <GLOSSARY>   .        q quits
   Telnet tips               <TELNET>     . 
   Telnet/TN3270 escape keys <ESCAPE.KEY> . 
   Key-stroke commands       <HELP.TXT>   . 
                                          
                                          
                          ........................
                      HYTELNET 6.2 was written by Peter Scott,
         U of Saskatchewan Libraries, Saskatoon, Sask, Canada.  1992
     Unix and VMS software by Earl Fogel, Computing Services, U of S 1992
                                                                       
      The first choice, "<WHATIS>" will be highlighted.  Use your down 
and up arrows to move the cursor among the choices.  Hit enter when you 
decide on one.  You'll get another menu, which in turn will bring up 
text files telling you how to connect to sites and giving any special 
commands or instructions you might need.  Hytelnet does have one quirk. 
To move back to where you started (for example, from a sub-menu to a 
main menu), hit the left-arrow key on your computer.  
     Play with the system.  You might want to turn on your computer's 
screen-capture, or at the very least, get out a pen and paper. You're 
bound to run across some interesting telnet services that you'll want to 
try -- and you'll need their telnet "addresses.''
     As you move around Hytelnet, it may seem as if you haven't left 
your host system -- telnet can work that quickly.  Occasionally, when 
network loads are heavy, however, you will notice a delay between the 
time you type a command or enter a request and the time the remote 
service responds. 
     To disconnect from Hytelnet and return to your system, hit your q 
key and enter. 
     Some telnet computers are set up so that you can only access them 
through a specific "port."  In those cases, you'll always see a number 
after their name, for example:  india.colorado.edu 13. It's important to 
include that number, because otherwise, you may not get in.
     In fact, try the above address. Type
 
                telnet india.colorado.edu 13
 
and hit enter.  You should see something like this:
 
                Trying 128.138.140.44 ...
 
Followed very quickly by this:
 
               telnet india.colorado.edu 13 
        
                Escape character is '^]'.
                Sun Jan 17 14:11:41 1994
                Connection closed by foreign host.
 
     
     What we want is the middle line, which tells you the exact 
Mountain Standard Time, as determined by a government-run atomic clock 
in Boulder, Colo. 
                   
 
6.2  LIBRARY CATALOGS
     

     Several hundred libraries around the world, from the Snohomish 
Public Library in Washington State to the Library of Congress are now 
available to you through telnet. You can use Hytelnet to find their 
names, telnet addresses and use instructions. 
     Why would you want to browse a library you can't physically get to?  
Many libraries share books, so if yours doesn't have what you're looking 
for, you can tell the librarian where he or she can get it.  Or if you live 
in an area where the libraries are not yet online, you can use telnet to do 
some basic bibliographic research before you head down to the local branch. 
     There are several different database programs in use by online 
libraries.  Harvard's is one of the easier ones to use, so let's try it.
     Telnet to hollis.harvard.edu.  When you connect, you'll see:
 

   *****************        H A R V A R D   U N I V E R S I T Y                
   *****************         OFFICE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY                 
   ***    ***    ***                                                           
   *** VE *** RI ***                                                           
   ***    ***    ***         HOLLIS    (Harvard OnLine LIbrary System)         
    *****     *****                                                            
     **** TAS ****           HUBS      (Harvard University Basic Services)     
       ***   ***                                                               
         *****               IU        (Information Utility)                   
          ***                                                                  
                             CMS       (VM/CMS Timesharing Service)            
                                                                               
                                                                               
             ** HOLLIS IS AVAILABLE WITHOUT ACCESS RESTRICTIONS **             
     Access to other applications is limited to individuals who have been      
     granted specific permission by an authorized person.                      
                                                                               
     To select one of the applications above, type its name on the command     
     line followed by your user ID, and press RETURN.                          
                    ** HOLLIS DOES NOT REQUIRE A USERID **                     
                                                                               
     EXAMPLES:   HOLLIS (press RETURN)  or  HUBS userid (press RETURN)         
===>                                                                           
 
Type
 
              hollis
 
and hit enter.  You'll see several screens flash by quickly until finally the 
system stops and you'll get this: 
 
                          WELCOME TO HOLLIS                                    
              (Harvard OnLine Library Information System)                      
                                                                               
 To begin, type one of the 2-character database codes listed below:            
                                                                               
        HU      Union Catalog of the Harvard libraries                         
        OW      Catalog of Older Widener materials                             
        LG      Guide to Harvard Libraries and Computing Resources             
                                                                               
        AI      Expanded Academic Index (selective 1987-1988, full 1989-  )    
        LR      Legal Resource Index (1980-  )                                 
        PA      PAIS International (1985-  )                                   
                                                                               
 To change databases from any place in HOLLIS, type CHOOSE followed by a       
 2-character database code, as in:    CHOOSE HU                                
                                                                               
 For general help in using HOLLIS, type HELP.   For HOLLIS news, type          
 HELP NEWS.   For HOLLIS hours of operation, type HELP HOURS.                  
     
        ALWAYS PRESS THE ENTER OR RETURN KEY AFTER TYPING YOUR COMMAND         
 
     The first thing to notice is the name of the system: Hollis. 
Librarians around the world seem to be inordinately found of cutesy, 
anthropomorphized acronyms for their machines (not far from Harvard, the 
librarians at Brandeis University came up with Library On-Line User 
Information Service, or Louis; MIT has Barton). 
     If you want to do some general browsing, probably the best bet on the 
Harvard system is to chose HU, which gets you access to their main 
holdings, including those of its medical libraries.  Chose that, and you'll 
see this:
                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          
              THE HARVARD UNIVERSITY LIBRARY UNION CATALOG                     
                                                                               
 To begin a search, select a search option from the list below and type its    
 code on the command line.  Use either upper or lower case.                    
                                                                               
                  AU           Author search                                   
                  TI           Title search                                    
                  SU           Subject search                                  
                  ME           Medical subject search                          
                  KEYWORD      Keyword search options                          
                  CALL         Call number search options                      
                  OTHER        Other search options                            
                                                                               
 For information on the contents of the Union Catalog, type HELP.              
 To exit the Union Catalog, type QUIT.                                         
                                                                               
 A search can be entered on the COMMAND line of any screen.                    
                                                                               
          ALWAYS PRESS THE ENTER OR RETURN KEY AFTER TYPING YOUR COMMAND.      
 
     Say you want to see if Harvard has shed the starchy legacy of the 
Puritans, who founded the school.  Why not see if they have "The Joy of 
Sex" somewhere in their stacks? Type
 
               TI Joy of Sex
 
and hit enter. This comes up:
 
HU: YOUR SEARCH RETRIEVED NO ITEMS.  Enter new command or HELP.      You typed:
 TI JOY OF SEX                                                                 
*******************************************************************************
                                                                               
                                                                               
 
 
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
          ALWAYS PRESS THE ENTER OR RETURN KEY AFTER TYPING YOUR COMMAND.      
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPTIONS: FIND                          START - search options           HELP   
                                       QUIT - exit database                    
COMMAND?                                                                       
 
 
 
Oh, well!  Do they have anything that mentions "sex" in the title?  Try 
another TI search, but this time just: TI sex.  You get:
 
 HU GUIDE: SUMMARY OF SEARCH RESULTS        2086 items retrieved by your search:
FIND TI SEX                                                                    
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
   1    SEX                                                                    
   2    SEX A                                                                  
 823    SEXA                                                                   
 827    SEXBO                                                                  
 831    SEXCE                                                                  
 833    SEXDR                                                                  
 834    SEXE                                                                   
 879    SEXIE                                                                  
 928    SEXJA                                                                  
 929    SEXLE                                                                  
 930    SEXO                                                                   
 965    SEXPI                                                                  
 968    SEXT                                                                   
1280    SEXUA                                                                  
2084    SEXWA                                                                  
2085    SEXY                                                                   
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPTIONS: INDEX (or I 5 etc) to see list of items         HELP                  
                                                         START - search options
         REDO - edit search                              QUIT - exit database  
COMMAND?                                                                       
 
If you want to get more information on the first line, type 1 and hit enter:
 
 HU INDEX: LIST OF ITEMS RETRIEVED          2086 items retrieved by your search:
FIND TI SEX                                                                    
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
SEX                                                                            
   1 geddes patrick sir 1854 1932/ 1914  bks                                   
                                                                               
SEX A Z                                                                        
   2 goldenson robert m/ 1987  bks                                             
                                                                               
SEX ABUSE HYSTERIA SALEM WITCH TRIALS REVISITED                                
   3 gardner richard a/ 1991  bks                                              
                                                                               
SEX AETATES MUNDI ENGLISH AND IRISH                                            
   4 irish sex aetates mundi/ 1983  bks                                        
                                                                               
SEX AFTER SIXTY A GUIDE FOR MEN AND WOMEN FOR THEIR LATER YEARS                
   5 butler robert n 1927/ 1976  bks                                           
                                                                               
                                                                               
------------------------------------------------------ (CONTINUES) ------------
OPTIONS: DISPLAY 1 (or D 5 etc) to see a record          HELP                  
         GUIDE                   MORE - next page        START - search options
         REDO - edit search                              QUIT - exit database  
COMMAND?                                                                       
 
 
     Most library systems give you a way to log off and return to your host 
system.  On Hollis, hit escape followed by 
 
          xx
 
     One particularly interesting system is the one run by the Colorado 
Alliance of Research Libraries, which maintains databases for libraries 
throughout Colorado, the West and even in Boston.
     Telnet pac.carl.org.
     Follow the simple log-in instructions. When you get a menu, type 72 
(even though that is not listed), which takes you to the Pikes Peak Library 
District, which serves the city of Colorado Springs.
     Several years ago, its librarians realized they could use their 
database program not just for books but for cataloging city records and 
community information, as well.  Today, if you want to look up municipal 
ordinances or city records, you only have to type in the word you're 
looking for and you'll get back cites of the relevant laws or decisions.
     Carl will also connect you to the University of Hawaii library, which, 
like the one in Colorado Springs, has more than just bibliographic material 
online.  One of its features is an online Hawaiian almanac that can tell 
you everything you ever wanted to know about Hawaiians, including the 
number injured in boogie-board accidents each year (seven).


6.3  SOME INTERESTING TELNET SITES
 
 
AGRICULTURE
 
     PENPages, run by Pennsylvania State University's College of 
Agricultural Sciences, provides weekly world weather and crop reports 
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. These reports detail 
everything from the effect of the weather on palm trees in Malaysia to 
the state of the Ukrainian wheat crop. Reports from Pennsylvania 
country extension officers offer tips for improving farm life. One 
database lists Pennsylvania hay distributors by county -- and rates 
the quality of their hay! 
     The service lets you search for information two different ways. A 
menu system gives you quick access to reports that change frequently, 
such as the weekly crop/weather reports. An index system lets you 
search through several thousand online documents by keyword. At the 
main menu, you can either browse through an online manual or chose 
"PENPages,'' which puts you into the agriculture system. 
     Telnet: psupen.psu.edu
     User name: PNOTPA
 
     California State University's Advanced Technology Information 
Network provides similar information as PENPages, only focusing on 
California crops. It also maintains lists of upcoming California trade 
shows and carries updates on biotechnology. 
     Telnet:  caticsuf.cati.csufresno.edu 
     Log in:  public 
 
    You will then be asked to register and will be given a user name 
and password.  Hit "a'' at the main menu for agricultural information.  
Hit "d'' to call up a menu that includes a biweekly biotechnology 
report. 
 
 
AIDS
 
     The University of Miami maintains a database of AIDS health 
providers in southern Florida.
     Telnet:  callcat.med.miami.edu
     Log in:  library
 
     At the main menu, select P (for "AIDS providers" and you'll be able 
to search for doctors, hospitals and other providers that care for 
patients with AIDS.  You can also search by speciality.
 
     See also under Health and Conversation.
 
 
AMATEUR RADIO:
 
     The National Ham Radio Call-Sign Callbook lets you search for 
American amateur operators by callsign, city, last name or Zip code. A 
successful search will give you the ham's name, address, callsign, 
age, type of license and when they got it. 
     Telnet:  callsign.cs.buffalo.edu 2000 or ham.njit.edu 2000.
     When you connect, you tell the system how you want to search and 
what you're looking for. For example, if you want to search for hams 
by city, you would type 
 
          city city name 
 
and hit enter (for example: city Kankakee).
     Other search choices are "call" (after which you would type a 
ham's name), "name," and "zip" (which you would follow with a Zip 
code).  Be careful when searching for hams in a large city; there 
doesn't seem to be anyway to shut off the list once it starts except 
by using control-]. Otherwise, when done, type 
 
               quit 
 
and hit enter to disconnect. 
 
 
ANIMALS
 
     See under Health.
 
ART
 
     The National Gallery of Art in Washington maintains a database of 
its holdings, which you can search by artist (Van Gogh, for example) or 
medium (watercolor, say). You can see when specific paintings were 
completed, what medium they are in, how large they are and who donated 
it to the gallery.
     Telnet:  ursus.maine.edu
     Login: ursus
     At the main menu, hit your b key and then 4 to connect to the 
gallery database.
     
CALCULATORS
 
     Hewlett-Packard maintains a free service on which you can seek 
advice about their line of calculators. 
     Telnet: hpcvbbs.cv.hp.com
     No log-in is needed.
 
CONGRESS
 
     The Library of Congress Information Service lets you search current
and past legislation (dating to 1982).
     Telnet: locis.loc.gov
     Password: none needed.
     When you connect, you'll get a main menu that lets you select 
from several databases, including the Library of Congress card catalog 
(with book entries dating to 1978) and a database of information on 
copyright laws.
     For the congressional database, select the number next to its 
entry and hit enter.  You'll then be asked to choose which legislative year 
to search. After that, a menu similar to this will come up:
 
  ***C103- THE LEGISLATIVE INFORMATION FILE FOR THE 103RD CONGRESS,
           which was updated on 05/10/93 and contains 4,044 records, 
           is now available for your search.
                                                                               
   CURRENCY: All information is NOT current through the above date, which is 
             machine generated when ANY information is added to the file.
             Bill numbers, official titles, sponsors, and status (STEP) added
             within 48 hours.  Indexing terms and digests added later, in 
             some cases several weeks after the bill is added to the file.
                                                                               
    TO START   RETRIEVE to find:                    EXAMPLES: 
    SEARCH:    member name  -------------->    retrieve rep gingrich 
                                               retrieve sen kennedy 
               bill number  -------------->    retrieve h.r. 1 
               subject keywords  --------->    retrieve day care
                                                                               
    FOR HELP:  Type the word HELP and press the ENTER key. 
                                                                               
                                                                               
    READY FOR NEW COMMAND:
 
CONVERSATION
    
     Communications Canada, a Canadian government agency is developing 
Conversational Hypertext Access Technology (CHAT) is a system being 
developed by Communications Canada to provide easy database access to 
people with little or no computer experience, using what are known as 
hypertext links.  Instead of cryptic computer commands, users type 
questions in English. 
    Telnet:  debra.doc.ca 
    Log in:  chat 
    You chose one of the three databases now online, one on AIDS, and 
then ask questions in English. 
    Ask the AIDS database, "When was AIDS first discovered?'' and it 
answers: 
    "The first case of AIDS in North America was diagnosed in 1979.  
Before that, it existed in Africa, probably beginning in the 1950's.  
AIDS was discovered in North America when a number of young men with a 
history of homosexuality developed a rare type of cancer called 
Kaposi's sarcoma.'' 
    Sometimes, you do have to rephrase your question. For example, 
when asked "What is the link between AIDS and drug use?'' the computer 
responds: 
    "I know two things about drugs: the drugs that are used to treat 
people with AIDS, and the risks that drug users have in getting AIDS.  
Please ask about treatments or drug users.'' 
 
COPYRIGHT LAW
 
     See under Congress.
 
CURRENT EVENTS
 
     Every year, the CIA publishes a Fact Book that is essentially an 
almanac of all the world's countries and international organizations, 
including such information as major products, type of government and 
names of its leaders.  It's available for searching through the 
University of Maryland Info Database. 
     Telnet: info.umd.edu
     Chose a terminal type and hit enter (or just hit enter if you are 
using VT100).  At the main menu, choose the number next to "Educational
Resources." Then select the number next to "International," followed by 
"Factbook." You can then search by country or agency. 
     This site also maintains copies of the U.S. budget, documents related 
to the North American Free Trade Agreement and other government 
initiatives. At the "Educational Resources" menu, select the number next to 
"United States" and then the one next to "Government."

     The Access Legislative Information Service lets you browse through
and look up bills before the Hawaiian legislature.
     Telnet: access.uhcc.hawaii.edu
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
     Envirolink is a large database and conference system about the 
environment, based in Pittsburgh.
     Telnet: envirolink.org
     Log on: gopher

     The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency maintains online 
databases of materials related to hazardous waste, the Clean Lakes 
program and cleanup efforts in New England.  The agency plans to 
eventually include cleanup work in other regions, as well.  The 
database is actually a computerized card catalog of EPA documents -- 
you can look the documents up, but you'll still have to visit your 
regional EPA office to see them. 
     Telnet: epaibm.rtpnc.epa.gov
     No password or user name is needed.  At the main menu, type
 
          public
 
and hit enter (there are other listed choices, but they are only for 
use by EPA employees).  You'll then see a one-line menu.  Type 
   
          ols 
 
and hit enter, and you'll see something like this:
 
 NET-106 Logon to TSO04    in progress.
 
    DATABASES:
        N     NATIONAL CATALOG         CH    CHEMICAL COLL. SYSTEM
        H     HAZARDOUS WASTE          1     REGION I
        L     CLEAN LAKES
 
    OTHER OPTIONS:
        ?     HELP
        Q     QUIT
 
  ENTER SELECTION -->
 
     Choose one and you'll get a menu that lets you search by document 
title, keyword, year of publication or corporation.  After you enter 
the search word and hit enter, you'll be told how many matches were 
found.  Hit 1 and then enter to see a list of the entries.  To view 
the bibliographic record for a specific entry, hit V and enter and 
then type the number of the record. 
 
     The University of Michigan maintains a database of newspaper and 
magazine articles related to the environment, with the emphasis on 
Michigan, dating back to 1980.
     Telnet:  hermes.merit.edu
     Host:  mirlyn
     Log in: meem  
 
GEOGRAPHY
 
     The University of Michigan Geographic Name Server can provide 
basic information, such as population, latitude and longitude of U.S. 
cities and many mountains, rivers and other geographic features. 
     Telnet: martini.eecs.umich.edu 3000 
     No password or user name is needed. Type in the name of a city, a 
Zip code or a geographic feature and hit enter.  The system doesn't like 
names with abbreviations in them (for example, Mt. McKinley), so spell 
them out (for example, Mount McKinley).
     By typing in a town's name or zip code, you can find out a 
community's county, Zip code and longitude and latitude. Not all 
geographic features are yet included in the database. 
 
GOVERNMENT
 
     See under Current Events and Congress.
 
HEALTH
 
      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration runs a database of health-
related information. 
      Telnet:  fdabbs.fda.gov
      Log in:  bbs
 
      You'll then be asked for your name and a password you want to use 
in the future.  After that, type
 
           topics
 
and hit enter.  You'll see this:
 
     TOPICS       DESCRIPTION
                                                                               
     *  NEWS         News releases
     *  ENFORCE      Enforcement Report
     *  APPROVALS    Drug and Device Product Approvals list
     *  CDRH         Centers for Devices and Radiological Health Bulletins
     *  BULLETIN     Text from Drug Bulletin                             
     *  AIDS         Current Information on AIDS
     *  CONSUMER     FDA Consumer magazine index and selected articles
     *  SUBJ-REG     FDA Federal Register Summaries by Subject       
     *  ANSWERS      Summaries of FDA information    
     *  INDEX        Index of News Releases and Answers
     *  DATE-REG     FDA Federal Register Summaries by Publication Date
     *  CONGRESS     Text of Testimony at FDA Congressional Hearings
     *  SPEECH       Speeches Given by FDA Commissioner and Deputy
     *  VETNEWS      Veterinary Medicine News
     *  MEETINGS     Upcoming FDA Meetings
     *  IMPORT       Import Alerts 
     *  MANUAL       On-Line User's Manual
                                                                               
     You'll be able to search these topics by key word or 
chronologically. It's probably a good idea, however, to capture a copy 
of the manual, first, because the way searching works on the system is a 
little odd.  To capture a copy, type
 
          manual
 
and hit enter.  Then type
 
         scan
 
and hit enter.  You'll see this:
 
     FOR LIST OF AVAILABLE TOPICS TYPE TOPICS
     OR ENTER THE TOPIC YOU DESIRE ==>
 
     MANUAL
     BBSUSER    
     08-OCT-91  
     1  BBS User Manual 
                                                                               
At this point, turn on your own computer's screen-capture or logging 
function and hit your 1 key and then enter.  The manual will begin to 
scroll on your screen, pausing every 24 lines.
 
HIRING AND COLLEGE PROGRAM INFORMATION
 
     The Federal Information Exchange in Gaithersburg, MD, runs two 
systems at the same address: FEDIX and MOLIS. FEDIX offers research, 
scholarship and service information for several federal agencies, 
including NASA, the Department of Energy and the Federal Aviation 
Administration. Several more federal agencies provide minority hiring 
and scholarship information. MOLIS provides information about minority 
colleges, their programs and professors. 
     Telnet: fedix.fie.com 
     User name:  fedix (for the federal hiring database) or
                 molis (for the minority-college system)
     Both use easy menus to get you to information.
 
HISTORY
 
     Stanford University maintains a database of documents related to 
Martin Luthor King.
     Telnet:  forsythetn.stanford.edu
     Account: socrates
 
     At the main menu, type
 
        select mlk
 
and hit enter.
 
SKI REPORTS
 
     See under weather.
 
SPACE
 
     NASA Spacelink in Huntsville, Ala.,  provides all sorts of 
reports and data about NASA, its history and its various missions, 
past and present.  You'll find detailed reports on every single probe, 
satellite and mission NASA has ever launched along with daily updates 
and lesson plans for teachers. 
     The system maintains a large file library of GIF-format space 
graphics, but  you can't download these through telnet. If you want 
them, you have to dial the system directly, at (205) 895-0028. 
     Telnet: spacelink.msfc.nasa.gov 
     When you connect, you'll be given an overview of the system and 
asked to register and chose a password. 
 
     The NED-NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database lists data on more than 
100,000 galaxies, quasars and other objects outside the Milky Way. 
     Telnet:  ipac.caltech.edu. 
     Log in:  ned
 
     You can learn more than you ever wanted to about quasars, novae and 
related objects on a system run by the Smithsonian Astrophysical 
Observatory in Cambridge, Mass.
     Telnet:  cfa204.harvard.edu
     Log in:  einline
 
     The physics department at the University of Massachusetts at 
Amherst runs a bulletin-board system that provides extensive conferences 
and document libraries related to space.
     Telnet: spacemet.phast.umass.edu
     Log on with your name and a password.
 
SUPREME COURT DECISIONS
 
     The University of Maryland Info Database maintains U.S. Supreme 
Court decisions from 1991 on.
     Telnet:  info.umd.edu
     Chose a terminal type and hit enter (or just hit enter if you are 
using VT100).  At the main menu, choose the number next to "Educational 
Resources" and hit enter. One of your options will then be for "United 
States."  Select that number and then, at the next menu, choose the one 
next to "Supreme Court." 
 
TELNET
 
     Hytelnet, at the University of Saskatchewan, is an online guide to 
hundreds of telnet sites around the world.
     Telnet:  access.usask.ca
     Log in:  hytelnet.
      
TIME
 
     To find out the exact time:
 
     Telnet: india.colorado.edu 13 
 
     You'll see something like this:
 
   
                Escape character is '^]'.
                Sun Apr  5 14:11:41 1992
                Connection closed by foreign host.
 
     The middle line tells you the date and exact Mountain Standard
     Time, as determined by a federal atomic clock.
 
TRANSPORTATION

     The Subway Navigator in Paris can help you learn how long it will 
take to get from point A to point B on subway systems around the world.
     Telnet: metro.jussieu.fr 10000
     No log-in is needed.
     When you connect, you'll be asked to choose a language in which to 
search (you can choose English or French) and then a city to search.  
You'll be asked for the station you plan to leave from and the station 
you want to get to.

WEATHER
 
     The University of Michigan's Department of Atmospheric, Oceanographic 
and Space Sciences supplies weather forecasts for U.S. and foreign cities, 
along with skiing and hurricane reports. 
     Telnet: madlab.sprl.umich.edu 3000 (note the 3000).
     No log-in name is needed.
     Also see under Weather in the FTP list for information on downloading
satellite and radar weather images.
 

6.4  TELNET BULLETIN-BOARD SYSTEMS
 
 
     You might think that Usenet, with its hundreds of newsgroups, 
would be enough to satisfy the most dedicated of online communicators. 
     But there are a number of "bulletin-board" and other systems that 
provide even more conferences or other services, many not found 
directly on the Net.  Some are free; others charge for access.  They 
include: 
 
     Bookstacks Unlimited is a Cleveland bookstore that uses the Internet
to advertise its services.  Its online system features not only a catalog, 
however, but conferences on books and literature.
     Telnet: books.com
     Log in with your own name and select a password for future connections.

     Cimarron.  Run by the Instituto Technical in Monterey, Mexico, 
this system has Spanish conferences, but English commands, as you can 
see from this menu of available conferences: 
                                                                               
          List of Boards
            Name                 Title 
            General              Board general
            Dudas                Dudas de Cimarron 
            Comentarios          Comentarios al SYSOP
            Musica               Para los afinados........
            Libros               El sano arte de leer.....
            Sistemas             Sistemas Operativos en General.
            Virus                Su peor enemigo......
            Cultural             Espacio Cultural de Cimarron
            NeXT                 El Mundo de NeXT
            Ciencias             Solo apto para Nerds.
            Inspiracion          Para los Romanticos e Inspirados.
            Deportes             Discusiones Deportivas
 
     To be able to write messages and gain access to files, you have 
to leave a note to SYSOP with your name, address, occupation and phone 
number.  To do this, at any prompt, hit your M key and then enter, 
which will bring up the mail system. Hitting H brings up a list of 
commands and how to use them. 
     Telnet: bugs.mty.itesm.mx (8 p.m. to 10 a.m., Eastern time, only).
     At the "login:" prompt, type
 
               bbs
 
and hit enter.
 
    Cleveland Free-Net.  The first of a series of Free-nets, this 
represents an ambitious attempt to bring the Net to the public. 
Originally an in-hospital help network, it is now sponsored by Case 
Western Reserve University, the city of Cleveland, the state of Ohio 
and IBM. It uses simple menus, similar to those found on CompuServe, 
but organized like a city: 
 
          <<< CLEVELAND FREE-NET DIRECTORY >>> 
                                                                               
            1 The Administration Building
            2 The Post Office
            3 Public Square
            4 The Courthouse & Government Center
            5 The Arts Building 
            6 Science and Technology Center
            7 The Medical Arts Building 
            8 The Schoolhouse (Academy One)
            9 The Community Center & Recreation Area
           10 The Business and Industrial Park
           11 The Library
           12 University Circle
           13 The Teleport 
           14 The Communications Center
           15 NPTN/USA TODAY HEADLINE NEWS
          ------------------------------------------------
          h=Help, x=Exit Free-Net, "go help"=extended help
                                                                               
          Your Choice ==>
 
     The system has a vast and growing collection of public documents, 
from copies of U.S. and Ohio Supreme Court decisions to the Magna 
Carta and the U.S. Constitution.  It links residents to various 
government agencies and has daily stories from USA Today. Beyond 
Usenet (found in the Teleport area), it has a large collection of 
local conferences on everything from pets to politics.  And yes, it's 
free! 
     Telnet: freenet-in-a.cwru.edu or
             freenet-in-b.cwru.edu or
             freenet-in-c.cwru.edu
 
     When you connect to Free-Net, you can look around the system.  
However, if you want to be able to post messages in its conferences or 
use e-mail, you will have to apply in writing for an account.  
Information on this is available when you connect. 
                                    
 
     DUBBS.  This is a bulletin-board system in Delft in the 
Netherlands. The conferences and files are mostly in Dutch, but the 
help files and the system commands themselves are in English. 
     Telnet: tudrwa.tudelft.nl
 
 
     ISCA BBS.  Run by the Iowa Student Computer Association, it has 
more than 100 conferences, including several in foreign languages.  
After you register, hit K for a list of available conferences and then 
J to join a particular conference (you have to type in the name of the 
conference, not the number next to it).  Hitting H brings up 
information about commands. 
     Telnet bbs.isca.uiowa.edu
     At the "login:" prompt, type
 
                bbs
 
and hit enter.
 
     Youngstown Free-Net.  The people who created Cleveland Free-Net 
sell their software for $1 to anybody willing to set up a similar 
system. A number of cities now have their own Free-Nets, including 
Youngstown, Ohio. Telnet: yfn.ysu.edu At the "login:" prompt, type 
 
               visitor
 
and hit enter.              
 

6.5  PUTTING THE FINGER ON SOMEONE
 
     Finger is a handy little program which lets you find out more about 
people on the Net -- and lets you tell others on the Net more about 
yourself. 
     Finger uses the same concept as telnet or ftp. But it works with 
only one file, called .plan (yes, with a period in front).  This is a 
text file an Internet user creates with a text editor in his home 
directory.  You can put your phone number in there, tell a little bit 
about yourself, or write almost anything at all.
     To finger somebody else's .plan file, type this at the command 
line:
 
     finger email-address
 
where email-address is the person's e-mail address.  You'll get back a 
display that shows the last time the person was online, whether 
they've gotten any new mail since that time and what, if anything, is 
in their .plan file.
     Some people and institutions have come up with creative uses for 
these .plan files, letting you do everything from checking the weather 
in Massachusetts to getting the latest baseball standings.  Try 
fingering these e-mail addresses:
 
weather@cirrus.mit.edu            Latest National Weather Service weather 
                                  forecasts for regions in Massachusetts.
 
quake@geophys.washington.edu      Locations and magnitudes of recent 
                                  earthquakes around the world. 
 
jtchern@ocf.berkeley.edu          Current major-league baseball standings and 
                                  results of the previous day's games.
 
nasanews@space.mit.edu            The day's events at NASA.
 
coke@cs.cmu.edu                   See how many cans of each type of soda
                                  are left in a particular soda machine
                                  in the computer-science department of
                                  Carnegie-Mellon University.


6.6  FINDING SOMEONE ON THE NET
 

     So you have a friend and you want to find out if he has an Internet 
account to which you can write?  The quickest way may be to just pick up 
the phone, call him and ask him.  Although there are a variety of "white 
pages" services available on the Internet, they are far from complete -- 
college students, users of commercial services such as CompuServe and 
many Internet public-access sites, and many others simply won't be 
listed.  Major e-mail providers are working on a universal directory 
system, but that could be some time away.
     In the meantime, a couple of "white pages" services might give you 
some leads, or even just entertain you as you look up famous people or 
long-lost acquaintances.
     The whois directory provides names, e-mail and postal mail address 
and often phone numbers for people listed in it.  To use it, telnet to
 
     internic.net
 
No log-on is needed.  The quickest way to use it is to type
 
     whois name
 
at the prompt, where "name" is the last name or organization name you're 
looking for.
     Another service worth trying, especially since it seems to give 
beginners fewer problems, is the Knowbot Information Service reachable by 
telnet at
 
     info.cnri.reston.va.us 185

Again, no log-on is needed.  This service actually searches through a 
variety of other "white pages" systems, including the user directory for 
MCIMail.  To look for somebody, type
 
     query name
 
where "name" is the last name of the person you're looking for.  You can 
get details of other commands by hitting a question mark at the prompt. 
You can also use the knowbot system by e-mail.  Start a message to

     netaddress@info.cnri.reston.va.us
 
You can leave the "subject:" line blank. As your message, type

     query name

for the simplest type of search.  If you want details on more complex
searches, add another line:
 
     man

     Another way to search is via the Usenet name server. This is a 
system at MIT that keeps track of the e-mail addresses of everybody who 
posts a Usenet message that appears at MIT. It works by e-mail.  Send a 
message to 
     
          mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu

Leave the "subject:" line blank. As your message, write 

           send usenet-addresses/lastname

where "lastname" is the last name of the person you're looking for.
 

6.7  WHEN THINGS GO WRONG
 
     * Nothing happens when you try to connect to a telnet site.  The 
site could be down for maintenance or problems.
     * You get a "host unavailable" message.  The telnet site is down 
for some reason.  Try again later. 
     * You get a "host unknown" message.  Check your spelling of the 
site name.
     * You type in a password on a telnet site that requires one, and 
you get a "login incorrect" message.  Try logging in again.  If you get 
the message again, hit your control and ] keys at the same time to 
disengage and return to your host system.
     * You can't seem to disconnect from a telnet site.  Use control-] 
to disengage and return to your host system.


6.8  FYI
 
     The Usenet newsgroups alt.internet.services and alt.bbs.internet 
can provide pointers to new telnet systems.  Scott Yanoff periodically 
posts his "Updated Internet Services List" in the former; Thomas Kreeger 
periodically posts "Zamfield's Wonderfully Incomplete, Complete Internet 
BBS List" in the latter newsgroup.   The alt.bbs.internet newsgroup is 
also where you'll find Aydin Edguer's compendium of FAQs related to 
Internet bulletin-board systems.                 
     Peter Scott, who maintains the Hytelnet database, runs a 
mailing list about new telnet services and changes in existing ones.   
To get on the list, send him a note at scott@sklib.usask.ca.
     Gleason Sackman is a vetern net.surfer who maintains another mailing 
list dedicated to new Internet services and news about the new uses to 
which the Net is being put.  To subscribe, send a message to 
listserv@internic.net. Leave the "subject:" line blank, and as your 
message, write: Sub net-happenings Your Name. 





rsity Circle
           13 The Teleport 
           14 The Communications Center
           15 NPTN/USA TODAY HEADLINE NEWS
          ------------------------------------------------
          h=Help, x=Exit Free-Net, "go help"=extended help
                                                                               
          Your Choice ==>
 
     The system has a vast and growing collection of public documents, 
from copies of U.S. and Ohio Supreme Court decisions to the Magna 
Carta and the U.S. Constitution.  It
Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253
