From emoryu1!phoenix.Princeton.EDU!nancyamm  Thu Feb  3 23:24:50 1994 remote from awwe
Received: by awwe.UUCP (1.65/waf)
	via UUCP; Fri, 04 Feb 94 02:13:03 EST
	for root
Received: from emory.mathcs.emory.edu by
	emoryu1.cc.emory.edu (5.65/Emory_cc.3.4.16) via SMTP
	id AA22131 ; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:24:47 -0500
Received: from Princeton.EDU by
	emory.mathcs.emory.edu (5.65/Emory_mathcs.3.4.18) via SMTP
	id AA07633 ; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:24:40 -0500
Return-Path: nancyamm@phoenix.Princeton.EDU
Received: from ponyexpress.Princeton.EDU by Princeton.EDU (5.65b/2.104/princeton)
	id AA01679; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:17:38 -0500
Received: from flagstaff.Princeton.EDU by ponyexpress.princeton.edu (5.65c/1.113/newPE)
	id AA11797; Thu, 3 Feb 1994 23:17:37 -0500
Received: by flagstaff.Princeton.EDU (4.1/Phoenix_Cluster_Client)
	id AA11048; Thu, 3 Feb 94 23:17:36 EST
Date: Thu, 3 Feb 1994 23:17:36 -0500 (EST)
From: Nancy Ammerman <emoryu1!phoenix.Princeton.EDU!nancyamm>
To: Jackie Ammerman <emory!emoryu1!awwe!root@phoenix.Princeton.EDU>
Message-Id: <Pine.3.89.9402032322.L3501-0100000@flagstaff.Princeton.EDU>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

Chapter 10: NEWS OF THE WORLD
 


     
10.1   Clarinet: UPI, Dave Barry and Dilbert.

 
     Usenet "newsgroups" can be something of a misnomer.  They may be 
interesting, informative and educational, but they are often not news, 
at least, not the way most people would think of them. But there are several 
sources of news and sports on the Net.  
     One of the largest is Clarinet, a company in Cupertino, Calf., that 
distributes wire-service news and columns, along with a news service 
devoted to computers and even the Dilbert comic strip, in Usenet form.  
     Distributed in Usenet form, Clarinet stories and columns are 
organized into more than 100 newsgroups (in this case, a truly 
appropriate name), some of them with an extremely narrow focus, for 
example, clari.news.gov.taxes.  The general news and sports come from 
United Press International; the computer news from the NewsBytes 
service; the features from several syndicates. 
     Because Clarinet charges for its service, not all host systems 
carry its articles. Those that do carry them as Usenet groups starting 
with "clari."  As with other Usenet hierarchies, these are named starting 
with broad area and ending with more specific categories.  Some of these 
include business news (clari.biz); general national and foreign news, 
politics and the like (clari.news), sports (clari.sports); columns by 
Mike Royko, Miss Manners, Dave Barry and others (clari.feature); and 
NewsBytes computer and telecommunications reports (clari.nb).  Because 
Clarinet started in Canada, there is a separate set of clari.canada 
newsgroups.  The clari.nb newsgroups are divided into specific computer 
types (clari.nb.apple, for example). 
     Clari news groups feature stories updated around the clock.  There 
are even a couple of "bulletin" newsgroups for breaking stories: 
clari.news.bulletin and clari.news.urgent.  Clarinet also sets up new 
newsgroups for breaking stories that become ongoing ones (such as major 
natural disasters, coups in large countries and the like). 
     Occasionally, you will see stories in clari newsgroups that just 
don't seem to belong there.  Stories about former Washington, D.C. mayor 
Marion Barry, for example, often wind interspersed among columns by Dave 
Barry.
     This happens because of the way wire services work.  UPI uses 
three-letter codes to route its stories to the newspapers and radio 
stations that make up most of its clientele, and harried editors on 
deadline sometimes punch in the wrong code.
 

10.2  REUTERS

     This is roughly the British equivalent of UPI or Associated Press. 
Msen, a public-access site in Michigan, currently feeds Reuters 
dispatches into a series of Usenet-style conferences.  If your site 
subscribes to this service, look for newsgroups with names that begin in 
msen.reuters.


10.3  USA TODAY
 
     If your host system doesn't carry the clari or msen.reuters 
newsgroups, you might be able to keep up with the news a different way 
over the Net.  USA Today has been something of an online newspaper 
pioneer, selling its stories to bulletin-board and online systems across 
the country for several years.  Cleveland Free-Net provides the online 
version of USA Today (along with all its other services) for free.  
Currently, the paper only publishes five days a week, so you'll have to 
get your weekend news fix elsewhere. 
 
          Telnet: freenet-in-a.cwru.edu or
                  freenet-in-b.cwru.edu
 
     After you connect and log in, look for this menu entry: NPTN/USA 
TODAY HEADLINE NEWS.  Type the number next to it and hit enter.  You'll 
then get a menu listing a series of broad categories, such as sports and 
telecommunications.  Choose one, and you'll get a yet another menu, 
listing the ten most recent dates of publication.  Each of these 
contains one-paragraph summaries of the day's news in that particular 
subject.
 
 
10.4  THE WORLD TODAY, FROM BELARUS TO BRAZIL
 

     Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty are American radio stations 
that broadcast to the former Communist countries of eastern Europe.  
Every day, their news departments prepare a summary of news in those 
countries, which is then disseminated via the Net, through a Bitnet 
mailing list and a Usenet newsgroup.
     To have the daily digests sent directly to your e-mailbox, send a 
message to 
          
          listserv@ubvm.cc.buffalo.edu
 
Leave the subject line blank, and as a message, write:
 
          subscribe rferl-l Your Name

Alternately, look for the bulletins in the Usenet newsgroup misc.news-
east-europe.rferl.
     Daily Brazilian news updates are available (in Portuguese) from the 
University of Sao Paulo.  Use anonymous ftp to connect to
 
          uspif.if.usp.br
 
Use cd to switch to the whois directory.  The news summaries are stored 
in files with this form: NEWS.23OCT92;1.  But to get them, leave off the 
semicolon and the 1, and don't capitalize anything, for example:
 
          get news.23oct92
 
     Daily summaries of news reports from France (in French) are availble 
on the National Capital FreeNet in Ottawa, Ont. Telnet to 

          freenet.carleton.ca

and log on as: guest.  At the main menu, select the number for "The 
Newsstand" and then "La presse de France."
     

10.5  E-MAILING NEWS ORGANIZATIONS


     A number of newspapers, television stations and networks and other 
news organizations now encourage readers and viewers to communicate with 
them electronically, via Internet e-mail addresses.  They include:

     The Middlesex News, Framingham, Mass.  sysop@news.ci.net
     The Boston Globe                       voxbox@globe.com
     WCVB-TV, Boston, Mass.                 wcvb@aol.com
     NBC News, New York, N.Y.               nightly@nbc.com
     The Ottawa Citizen, Ottawa, Ont.       ottawa-citizen@freenet.carleton.ca
     CJOH-TV, Ottawa, Ont.                  ab363@freenet.carleton.ca
     St. Petersburg (Fla.) Times            73174.3344@compuserve.com
     Illinois Issues, Springfield, Ill.     gherardi@sangamon.edu
     WTVF-TV, Nashville, Tenn.              craig.ownsby@nashville.com


10.6  FYI
 
     The clari.net.newusers newsgroup on Usenet provides a number of 
articles about Clarinet and ways of finding news stories of interest 
to you.
     To discuss the future of newspapers and newsrooms in the new 
electronic medium, subscribe to the Computer Assisted Reporting and 
Research mailing list on Bitnet.  Send a mail message of

          Subscribe carr-l Your Name

to listserv@ulkyvm.bitnet.






Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253
