            GETTING INFORMATION TO AND FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
                       FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
                         Updated March 12, 1993

A.  HOW TO SIGN UP FOR ELECTRONIC RELEASES FROM THE WHITE HOUSE: 

The White House Communications office is distributing press releases over an
experimental system developed during the campaign.

You can sign up to receive press releases on this experimental system by using
the automated computer server.  You will be carried forward onto the system
that replaces it.  However, it would be appreciated if you used this
service sparingly at this time.  The present system was not designed to handle
high levels of message traffic.  In due course, a more powerful system will
be available.

You can also find copies of the press releases in certain on-line bulletin
board groups devoted to discussions of either national politics in general or
President Clinton in particular.  

1.  On USENET/NETNEWS, electronic publications are found on a variety of
    groups:

        Direct Distribution

                alt.politics.clinton
                alt.politics.org.misc
                alt.politics.reform
                alt.politics.usa.misc
                alt.news-media
                alt.activism
                talk.politics.misc

        Indirect Distribution

                misc.activism.progressive
                cmu.soc.politics
                assocs.clinton-gore-92 

2.  On CompuServe: GO WHITEHOUSE

3.  On America Online: keyword WHITEHOUSE or THE WHITEHOUSE or CLINTON

4.  On The WELL: type whitehouse

5.  On MCI: type VIEW WHITE HOUSE


If you don't have access to the these accounts or if you would prefer to
receive the releases via e-mail, then the next section details how to sign up
for this service.  The server is not set up to answer e-mail letters,
comments or requests for specific information. To reach this server, send
e-mail:


                to: Clinton-Info@Campaign92.Org
                subject: Help

The server works by reading the subject line of the incoming message and
taking whatever action that line calls for. If you want to sign up to
automatically receive press releases, then your subject line would begin with
the word RECEIVE.  You can then specify what kind of information you are
interested in receiving. The categories of information are:

ECONOMIC POLICY
                        Get releases related to the economy such as budget
                        news, technology policy review, etc.


FOREIGN POLICY
                        Get releases related to foreign policy such as
                        statements on Bosnian airdrop, Haitian refugee status,
                        etc.


SOCIAL POLICY
                        Get releases related to social issues like National
                        Service (Student Loan) program, abortion, welfare
                        reform, etc.

SPEECHES                    
                        All speeches made by the President and important
                        speeches made by other Administration officials.

NEWS
                        Transcripts of press conferences released by the White
                        House Communications office, as well as the
                        President's remarks in photo ops and other Q&A
                        sessions.

ALL                     All of the above

So, if you wanted to sign up to get releases related to the economy your
e-mail message would look like this:

        To: Clinton-Info@Campaign92.Org
        Subject: RECEIVE ECONOMY

When you send a signup message to the clinton-info server, it sends you back a
status message letting you know what distribution streams you are signed up
for. If you ever want to check on what groups you are signed up for send the
following message:

To: Clinton-Info@Campaign92.Org
Subject: STATUS




You can stop receiving e-mail releases by sending a REMOVE message to the
clinton-info server. The word REMOVE would be followed by whatever
distribution stream you wanted to drop. If you wanted to stop receiving
message about the ECONOMY then your mail would look like this:

To: Clinton-Info@Campaign92.Org
Subject: REMOVE ECONOMY

You could substitute SOCIAL, FOREIGN, SPEECHES, NEWS or ALL for ECONOMY in the
above message and you would be dropped from that distribution list. If you
send the subject line REMOVE ALL, then you will be taken off the e-mail
distribution system all together and will not receive further releases of any
kind.

You can also ask for help from the automated server.  Send an e-mail query as
follows:

        To: Clinton-Info@Campaign92.Org
        Subject: HELP

The server will respond by sending you a detailed form that will guide you
through the process of signing up for the various distribution streams.

B.  ARE THE WHITE HOUSE PRESS RELEASES BEING ARCHIVED.

Yes.  Various sites are archiving the press releases.  What follows is an
incomplete list of some of the sites containing the documents that have
been released to date.  This FAQ will be updated to reflect new sites as
they become known.

         SITE                           DIRECTORY

1. SUNSITE.UNC.EDU              /HOME3/WAIS/WHITE-HOUSE-PAPERS
2. FTP.CCO.CALTECH.EDU          /PUB/BJMCCALL
3. FTP MARISTB.MARIST.EDU
4. CPSR.ORG                     /CPSR/CLINTON
5. FedWorld BBS                 703-321-8020  8-N-1


Notes:  The following are notes on how to log in and get
        information from the above sites.

1.      Office FOR Information Technology at University of
        North Carolina Maintains the full collection of White
        House electronic release available for search with WAIS.
        (:source
        :version 3
        :database-name "/home3/wais/White-House-Papers" :ip-
                address "152.2.22.81"
        :ip-name "sunsite.unc.edu"
        :tcp-port 210
        :cost 0.00
        :cost-unit :free
        :maintainer "pjones@sunsite.unc.edu"

        :description "Server created with WAIS release 8 b5 on  
                Feb 27 15:16:16 1993 by pjones@sunsite.unc.edu
        These are the White House Press Briefings and other
        postings dealing with William Jefferson Clinton and
        Albert Gore as well as members of the President's
        Cabinet and the first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, 
        Chelsea, Socks and others in Washington DC. Dee Dee 
        Meyers and George Stephanopoulos.  Other good words:
        United States of America, Bill Al Tipper Democrats USA 
        US These files are also available via anonymous ftp 
        from sunsite.unc.edu The files of type filename used in 
        the index were: 
        /home3/ftp/pub/academic/political-science/whitehouse-
         papers/1993 ")
        Folks without WAIS clients or gophers that act as WAIS
        clients may telnet to sunsite.unc.edu and login as swais 
        to access this information via WAIS. 

2.      No special instructions.

3.      The CLINTON@MARIST log files which contain all the official
        administration releases distributed through the MIT servers
        are available via anonymous FTP. These logs contain in
        addition to the official releases, the posts that comprise the
        ongoing discussion conducted by the list subscribers. 
        To obtain the logs:
        FTP MARISTB.MARIST.EDU - the logs are in the CLINTON directory
        and are named CLINTON LOG9208 thru CLINTON LOGyymm where yymm
        stands for the current year and month. Problems should be
        directed to my attention: URLS@MARISTC.BITNET or
        URLS@VM.MARIST.EDU. 
        Posted by Lee Sakkas - owner, CLINTON@MARIST

4.      Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility is
        providing all Clinton documents on technology and privacy
        at the CPSR Internet Library, available via
        FTP/WAIS/Gopher at cpsr.org /cpsr/clinton (and in other
        folders as relevant). For email access, send a message
        with the word "help" at the 1st line of text to
        listserv@cpsr.org.

5.      The White House Forum (GO WHITEHOUSE) on CompuServe is devoted to
        discussion of the Clinton administration's policies and activities.
        The forum's library consists of news releases and twice daily media
        briefings from the White House Office of Media Affairs.  CompuServe
        members can exchange information and opinions with each other in the
        17 sections in the forum's message area.  The message board spans a
        broad range of topics, including international and United Nations
        activities, defense, health care, the economy and the deficit, housing
        and urban development, the environment, and education and national
        service.




6.      On America Online the posts are sent to the White House Forum, located
        in the News & Finance department of the service and accessible via
        keywords "white house" and "clinton."  The White House Forum on America 
Online contains the press releases from the White House, divided into the 
categories "Press Briefings," "Meetings & Speeches," "Foreign Policy," "The 
Economy," "Technology," "Health Care," and "Appointments." The area features a 
message board so you can discuss the releases with other AOL members, and a 
searchable database for easy retrieval of releases in the topic that interests 
you.

7.      MCI Mail users can access daily information on the administration's      
programs provided by the White House through MCI Mail bulletin boards.  The 
available boards are: WHITE HOUSE ECONOMIC, WHITE HOUSE FOREIGN,    WHITE HOUSE 
SOCIAL, WHITE HOUSE SPEECHES and WHITE HOUSE NEWS.  A       listing of these 
boards can also be obtained by simply typing 
        VIEW WHITE HOUSE at the COMMAND prompt.


C.  SENDING E-MAIL TO THE WHITE HOUSE

The White House e-mail system is under construction.  This is a new project
and suffers from all of the problems common to a startup operation.  The
Communications office is currently working on defining what this system will
do, as well as trying to come up with equipment and staffing to make sure that
it works.  E-mail messages are currently being printed out and responses
are being sent out via US Mail.

Nobody wants this new venture to work more than the staff that has devoted so
many hours to getting it up and running.  But much time and effort will be
required before the system is truly interactive.  In the mean time, they will
need a little patience from the electronic community.  If you send a message
to the White House, please include a US Post office address for replies.

        You can send e-mail to the following accounts:

Compuserve:             75300,3115
                        GO: WHITE HOUSE         finds White House forum

America OnLine:         clinton pz
                        KEYWORD: WHITEHOUSE     finds White House area

MCI                     TO: WHITE HOUSE
                        VIEW WHITE HOUSE        views bulletin boards

Internet:               clinton-hq@Campaign92.Org
                        75300.3115@compuserve.com
                        clintonpz@aol.com


Please send corrections, deletion and additions to this fqa to:
                Updates@Clinton92.Org
