SORCERER OF CLAYMORGUE CASTLE

This is one of the trickier games from Adventure International. Several of the
problems in the game have more than one solution, but in each case, there is
only one right way to solve the puzzle. Also, some of the events have a random
nature to them, and you'll be warned about them as they happen. As with all
games, it's best to save every now and then, in case you make a mis-step along
the way.

The object is fairly simple: you're supposed to explore a (somewhat) deserted
castle and its environs, and find 13 magic stars. You have some magic spells
to help you, and you will come across others as you progress through the game.
Most of the spells are necessary, however this walkthrough makes using two of
them optional. More about that later, let's get started!

You begin in a field in front of a castle with a raised drawbridge. You'll be
going inside soon enough; right now, it's time to collect your first stars.
Just dig where you're standing, and you'll find the first one. Note that the
game will not always tell you what you've found; sometimes all it says is "got
something". In this case, the "something" is a star.

Now go West into the Enchanted Forest. No matter which way you go from here,
except East, you'll always be in the Forest. That's not important, since you
can do everything you need right where you are. At the moment, you're about to
get on Smokey the Bear's hit list, by burning down a tree. Cast your fire
spell at a tree, and it will be come a pile of ashes. Look at the ashes, and
you'll get another "something", your second star.

With that in hand, go East to the field again, and then go into the moat.
Leave sleeping moat monsters lie, hold your breath, and swim down twice. A
soggy towel is floating around here; get that, and swim once to the East. Aha!
You're in a pool of dirty water, facing a cabinet. Breathe again, and open the
cabinet, to obtain yet another mysterious "something", this time the Bliss
spell.

Ok, everybody out of the pool! Now you're in a kitchen with a crate standing
on the floor. Grab the crate, and go South to the Courtyard. Here you'll see a
pretty Magic Fountain (more about that later), along with some fire bricks and
another spell, Permeability. Drop your stars and the Wicked Queen's spell
here. The Queen's spell is one of the optional spells, and you don't really
need it (when you have the broken glass from the chandelier, casting the
Queen's spell forms the glass into a magic mirror).

Walk South into the Plain Room. There is nothing more suspicious in an
adventure game than a completely empty room, so of course there must be more
here than meets the eye. Pull on the West wall. Sonuvagun! The wall moved and
now you're in another room, with the Methuselah and Unravel spells. Take those
and go East in to the Plain Room, then push on the East wall. Aha! That one
moved too, and now you're in the Dusty Room.

You'll be coming back this way again, but for now, all you need to do is cast
the (Open Sesame) Seed spell on the door. This is to save you some time later
on when you return here. Now that the door is open, go back the way you came
to the Courtyard. Drop off the Methuselah spell here, and go East to the
ballroom.

Isn't that a pretty chandelier? I wouldn't be surprised if something was
hidden there, not to mention higher up in the loft you can't reach. But, there
are ways around that! Cast the Unravel spell on the rope, then get out fast!
Sometimes the rope comes apart right away, and sometimes it takes a few moves
(one of the random events). Either way, you don't want to stay around for the
big crash, and besides, you have other things to do!

Leave the Ballroom, and go back to the Plain Room. This time, push the South
wall, and you're at the top of the condemned stairs. Pick up the star, then go
down. Rats!! Nasty-looking, too. Fortunately, there's way of dealing with
them. Cast the Lycanthrope spell, and you will turn into a ferret. The rats
will scurry away into a hole. Now it's your turn: go into the hole as well.
You're under the stairs, and there's another star. Grab that, and go back
through the hole again (don't waste time, or you won't be able to get back out
when you resume human form).

Now walk up (important to say "walk" here!) the stairs and back to the
Courtyard. Drop off the stars, then go West. Here you're at the raised
drawbridge. Pull the lever, and the bridge will lower over the moat. The lever
will also break off in your hand. That's nothing to worry about. You can drop
the wood, because there's no use for it in the game, and then go out onto the
drawbridge.

Now comes the fun part. From now, until the time you come down from the loft
in the ballroom, your movements *must* be exact. The Bliss spell, which you
are about to use, will last long enough to get everything done, so long as you
don't waste time. You may want to save the game at this point, in case you
don't manage it all the first time through.

Ok, into the moat! Once again, hold your breath, and swim down. Keep swimming
down until you reach the bottom. Look at the bottom, and, sure enough, you
pick up a "something" (another star). Of course, by now you're just about out
of air, so cast the Bliss spell, and you will be propelled right out of the
moat, into the field again! Whew! Take a deep breath, then go back over the
drawbridge into the castle.

From there, go straight to the Plain Room, push the East wall, and go through
the open stone door. Then it's down the stairs to the lava stream. Remember
that soggy towel? Well, here's where we get it all nice and dry. First, wring
the towel. Then, go into the lava stream (you're protected by the Bliss
spell), and drop the towel there, and after that head South, into the grotto.
Take the star and the Dizzy Dean spell, then go North to the lava. Pick up the
now-dry towel, and continue North to the bottom of the stairs.

Head up the stairs, through the Dusty and Plain rooms, into the Courtyard, and
back into the Ballroom. By now, the chandelier has fallen, but it's still
pretty much in one piece. Climb the chandelier. Be careful not to cut yourself
on the broken glass, and ignore the star for now. Cast the Light spell, and
the chandelier will rise straight up. How about that?

Now you're high enough to get to the loft. Of course, as soon as you're in the
loft, the chandelier will fall, but don't worry about it. Get the potion, and
now throw the crate. Crash! Must be a long way down. Speaking of down, the
only way to get there is to jump, so do that little thing. Whoosh! Good thing
the Bliss spell is still working!! Now you can get the star from the
chandelier, and then climb onto the crate.

Aha! The fall from the loft broke the crate, and now there's a hole in it. Go
into the hole, and take the piece of metal that's there. What could it be? As
a matter of fact, it happens to be a can opener, which you'll be needing
pretty soon, so go back out the hole and jump off the crate.

Now, it's back to the Courtyard again. Drop off your stars, and return yet
again (talk about deja vu!) to the Plain Room. This time, you're about to
check out the floor, but you need a little something first, so go into the
Dusty Room, and get some dust, then return to the Plain Room. Take a swig of
the potion (it makes you invisible), then push on the floor. Oops! You just
fell into a dragon's lair! Good thing he can't see you!

Grab the star, then look at the dragon. Sure enough, you get another
"something" (a star, what else?). Time is growing short, though, because the
potion won't last forever. Throw the dust, and the dragon will give a mighty 
sneeze, moving away from a hole in the wall. Go through the hole, and you'll
be in another room, where you'll see a star and the Firefly spell. The Firefly
spell is the other otpional spell; take it or not as you please, just make
sure you get the star.

And then it's through the hole and up again to the Plain Room, and out to the
Courtyard once again. Take the firebricks, and look up at the battlements. By
gosh, there's a tin can up there! However, I doubt that you have what it takes
to make an accurate throw with the bricks. So, now's the time to cast the
Dizzy spell. And here is another of those random events. You have to throw the
bricks at the can to knock it down, but you don't always manage it the first
time.

If you miss, just go out to the drawbridge, and you'll find the bricks. Pick
them up, and try from where you are to knock it down again. Sooner or later,
(hopefully sooner), you'll get the can. Open it with the piece of metal, look
inside, and, yes friends, pick up a "something" (bet I don't have to tell you
it's a star). Drop the metal and the can, and make your way back to the
Courtyard.

All right, you are getting near the end now, and it's time to start storing
away some of those stars (no littering allowed in castles!). Drop everything
you may be holding except the stars and the Yoho spell. Get the Permea spell,
and as many more stars as you can carry. You ought to be able to hold eight
stars, plus the Yoho and Permea spells. Now, leave the castle over the
drawbridge, and go into the Enchanted Forest.

If you took the Firefly spell, now's the time to cast it (you'll glow like a
firefly, thus providing light). Cast the Permea spell, and you'll pass through
the tree into an opening inside it. Written on the wall is the note: "Drop
stars here". So, drop all the stars you have, then cast Yoho. It's the only
spell that works twice, and it a very odd way. The first time, it takes you
from wherever you are, and leaves you in front of the castle. The second time
you use it, it takes you back to the place where you first used it. Which
means, the next time you use Yoho, it will take you back inside the tree.

Whew! Ok, now it's time for the hard part. Back to the Courtyard, and pick up
all the remaining stars, as well as the towel and the Methuselah spell. Here
is another good place to save the game, since what follows also has a random
nature. Now, you've probably been wondering about that fountain. There's a
star in there, all right. However, that fountain ain't called "Magic" for
nothing!

In fact, it's a Fountain of Youth, and as soon as you step into it, you start
growing younger! And younger, and younger until there's no more of you to
speak of. Good thing for you that you have the Methuselah spell. All right,
lets get this over with!

Go into the Fountain, take the star, and climb the centerpiece. When you get
to the top, dry yourself off, and cast the Methuselah spell. Don't waste any
moves here, or it will be too late. Now, go down the dark shaft, into the
dungeon. There is a star here (whether you can see it or not); take that, and
cast Yoho. Now you're back in the tree. Drop all the rest of the stars, and
say "score". Ta-da!!! You did it!! (Ok, so you had a little help, you still
deserve congratulations for getting through this one!).
