This is MiniMAC version 0.2.

MiniMAC is yet another PC based Eurocrypt smartcard emulator.

Most of MiniMAC has been written from scratch and it is not just a 
hacked version of some existing program.
Originally I started to write it just for fun, but as
it grew it turned out to be quite useful. 

There are three main differences between MiniMAC 
and other smartcard emulators for PC's such as Maccess 
and Voyager:

1) It keeps all keys in a plain ascii file (minimac.ini) 
   thus allowing fast key updates just by adding lines. See
   the supplied minimac.ini for more details.

2) It supports TV2 Norway. 

3) I have the source :)

MiniMAC does not have a fancy user interface and does not contain 
any code for specific receivers, so it may not work on certain 
models eg. Nokia. If you can't get Voyager or Maccess to work you
probably will not get MiniMAC to work either.

Currently MiniMAC has only been tested on a PACE MSS1000 with 
built in Eurocrypt decoder and two different PC's (16 Mhz 286 
and 75 Mhz Pentium).

The supplied minimac.ini contains keys making it possible to decode 
the following channels:

On Astra 19.2 east:

  Filmnet 1
  TV1000
  TV3 Norway
  TV3 Sweden
  TV3 Denmark

On TV-SAT 0.6 west:

  TV1000 Cinema

On THOR 0.8 west:

  CNN
  Eurosport Nordic
  TCC Nordic
  Discovery
  MTV
  Filmnet 2

On Intelsat 702 1.0 west:

  TV1000
  TV3 Norway
  TV3 Sweden
  TV3 Denmark
  TV2 Norway

On EUTELSAT II F3 16.0 east:

  TV Plus

On TELECOM 2A 8.0 west:

  Cine Cinemas
  Canal Plus

On Intelsat 601 27.5 west

  BBC Prime



-------------------------

To run MiniMAC put minimac.exe and minimac.ini in the same directory
and type:

  minimac [com] [delays] [S] [Z] [V]

where:

  com:  Serial port to use, default is 2.

  delays: is one or more of:
    wax  wait x milliseconds between reset and answer to reset 
    wbx  wait x milliseconds after each outgoing byte 
    wcx  wait x milliseconds between last data and status
    wdx  wait x milliseconds between receives in 0x88
    wex  wait x milliseconds after sending 0x89 in 0x88
         command or after sending 0x25 in 0x24 command.

    Default values are 0 except for we where it is 100.

  S: Run silent ie. without screen output.

  Z: Use 9600 baud, default is 10000. This is the first switch to
     try if it does not work with default parameters.

  V: Don't send error back to the receiver when station not 
     recognized. Normally MiniMAC will make the Eurocrypt  
     decoder put up a "No Access" message when a channel identification
     is not known.

While running, MiniMAC recognizes the following keys:

  L: Start/stop logging all traffic to MINIMAC.LOG.
  S: Toggle silent mode.
  Q: Quit. 

Things that need to be done:

  A better user interface - preferably something like Maccess/Voyager.

  Testing on various receivers/decoders. 

  More keys in MINIMAC.INI. I don't have access to BBC Prime and 
  CineCinemas, so I haven't tested these.

  Better compliance with the Eurocrypt standard. If someone know
  where I can get a description of D2MAC and Eurocrypt please let me 
  know. 

If you try out MiniMAC I would like your feedback, positive as well as
negative. I'm also interested if you can't get it to work. Please specify 
what receiver/decoder and which PC you use. At least this will make it 
possible to make a list of working/non working setups.

Please send any comments to: an511045@anon.penet.fi



