      THE ........ULTIMATE..........GUIDE........ON...........TRASHING


                 ///\\\   IT's  NOT  FUN,  IT's  SCIENCE!   ///\\\

               DEFINITION:  Trashing is the operation of recovering paper
 documents, bills, checks etc. from the persons or companies garbage
 cans(bags).  Trashing is one of the the oldest and safest ways to get any 
 kind of information(if u know what r doing)

               SAFETY:  This is very safe method, because usually it
 doesn't involve any illegal actions, except trespassing when it's nececery, 
 it is virtually impossible to get into serious trouble for trashing.
 Here's the tip, with it u are never gonna get in any kind of trouble, 
 REMEMBER u should never look like u are searching for paper documents or 
 any other kind of private information, which can easily be considered 
 illegal.(will be explained later)

               STRATEGY:  Strategy is more important than most of u kids
 think it is. Everybody should have his own strategy, but here are some 
 hints. It's very important to see three parts of the process which are
 targeting, planning and action. Most of u clearly see the last part.

  Targeting or choosing the object for your next mission is very important, 
 u wouldn't like to trash some supermarket or store, and then find out that 
 they don't even accept credit cards or bank where they shred all the 
 fucking paper, however usually it's not so hard to choose the right object, 
 a little bit of research and common sense, basically thats all! 

  Planning - the most important and probably the most difficult part, here 
 u should plan your mission considering everything: time, weather conditions, 
 location, security (surveillance and police patrolling), crime situation in 
 the area (in poor neighbourhoods, where robberies and usual crimes like 
 that are very frequent, police and people are very suspicious of every dude 
 walking around dressed in the black) , crowdness , "dress code" and of 
 course action itself.

  Action completely depends on your physical abilities 
 (jumping over the fence, sneaking in to the backyard,etc) and abilities of 
 your tools. Also u should know that trashing takes a lot of patience, 
 sometimes u have to go for weeks to the same place, until u find what u r 
 looking for, so it's not a good idea to mess the site up or burn the 
 garbage cans to the ground, even though that can be phun!:-0)

               TARGETING:  There are two ways of targeting : RANDOM - when u
 are basically guessing your future objects using your common sense, for
 example most people know that banks throw out a lot of paper, so why
 shouldn't i check one of them. Usually when u use that method u don't know
 exactly what are u looking for, u r just browsing the paper, searching for
 something that could interest u, like numbers, signatures, handwriting.
 
  POINTED - is the other, more sufisticated method of trashing, that involves
 some research. Here, the goal is to get as much information as u can about
 organization and its activity. The best example, is the trashing of
 the private sector, everybody knows that most of the credit card companies
 send their statements at the  end of the month, so the good idea to trash it
 around this time to get the best results. Following the recycling days also a
 good example of pointed trashing.

             PLANNING:  Remember the most important thing is to plan your
 actions, so it will take u the least amount of time possible, without 
 getting a lot of attention.

             TIME: of course the best time to go trashing is from 2-5 am 
 (in the big cities), however from my own experience u should do this 4-5 am 
 when it's not dark anymore but there are still no people on the
 streets and your local police units seem to be more relaxed, waiting for 
 the opening of Dunkin Donuts. Don't be too late, though, if in your area 
 garbage squad works on any kind of schedule(hehe), u don't wanna come over 
 and see all the garbage collected! The best night for trashing is the night 
 before collecting, which u can easily find out by the signs on the street 
 that say :NO PARKING  on particular days, recycling days really can be 
 helpful since all the paper and cardboard should be wrapped and left in 
 front of the house, to find out recycling days in your area u should 
 contact your local department of sanitation (212-219-8090 for NYC
 (sanitation action center)) recycling days usually go with interval of 2 
 weeks (except holidays). By the way do not spend more than 10-15 minuts 
 trashing, 15 minutes should be more than enough!

              WEATHER: of course it doesn't really matter, but
 if it's raining and weather is shitty itself chances are u'll be doing your
 thing without major interruptions. It good to start right after the rain has
 started, that way u won't find most of the paper documents damaged!

              LOCATION:  Most of the backyards these days remind 
 concentration camps of the WWII, so u gonna need some skill to go through 
 those fancy fences. If don't have a lot of experience or u just don't
 feel like breaking the law, choose target with an easy access so u won't 
 get a lot trouble getting in and out.

              DRESS CODE: Get your old dark clothes from the closet and u 
 are set! However u can't look different from the people in the
 neighbourhood! And of course no need for army stuff like camouflage pants,
 black gloves and hats, don't get extreme, people will figure some serial
 killer they were expecting all their life finally came in their
 neighbourhoods, and will call the cops, just for the regular check up!

              PEOPLE (amount): U should avoid usual hang outs
 and places where a lot of people happen to like walking through in the
 nighttime.In the daytime big crowds are you best allies, if u planning to
 trash the cashier's garbage can, in your local WIZ or whatever, the best 
 hours are from 12 to 4 pm, when either the store is so crowded that you can 
 take the cashier machine with the papers or it's empty, and most of the 
 employees happened to take a lunch break or too lazy even to look around!
      
             SURVEILLANCE: Of course u know today most of the 
 companies, i don't even talk about banks, armed with the latest pieces of
 surveillance equipment, cameras in the backyard of course are the worst and
 most common enemies of the trasher, so before diving in, look around, 
 chances are, theres something that can see u, a lot of private houses have the
 movement detectors, u know this really annoying thing that lights up when
 someone's walking around, one of my stupid neighbours put one outside his
 house, now it goes off, everytime someone walks by the the house, just 
 break the bulb, and that shouldn't be a big problem.     

           ACTION:   Ok, here we are ,everything is prepared, the date is
 set, your new armani suit  is waiting for you in the closet, u are ready to
 go! U are gonna need some tools to help you finish everything faster and
 safer, of course!  What u have to know is that u cannot take anything that
 will not be helpful or can reveal your identity if u loose it.

     BLADE - one of the most important tool for u!
  Remember those old razors where u had to replace the blade, well thats the
 blade u need! I know it's pretty hard to get one today, but u definitely
 should check your local pharmacy for it! 

     Utility knives : some people use them
 because it's safer to carry on and u can use them for other things like
 striping wires, but i don't like to use utility knives because they are 
 pretty big and it's pretty hard to get rid of when u have to, the other 
 thing is that it doesn't work for me that well! If u don't want 
 accidentally slash yourself u may consider put some iso-tape(electrical) 
 over it, and use it as a handle.

     Rubber(latex) GLOVE(s) - here's  another tool, for people 
 like me, who don't really enjoy going through somebodies leftovers or
 whatever is in there! I use one glove, the technique is: i carry blade in 
 one hand and on the other i put the glove, to go through the actual trash. 
 When u get used to this technique, the work goes amazingly fast. After the 
 job is done the good idea would be not to put the glove in the same 
 garbage can!
                             
            FLASHLIGHT:  I know it's a very important thing
 to have with u, but here in New York i used it maybe twice going trashing, the
 streets are so lighten up, i guess u can find a penny in the trash here
 without using any portable source of light!

            BAG(s):  First of all u are gonna need a
 bag to put all you foundings in it, the second bag can be very useful (see
 SLASHING) My advice do not carry the bag while going through the trash. Put 
 it in the can with the rest of the trash, and only after finishing take the 
 bag and leave fast, otherwise u will cause brain damage to the cop or guard 
 when he will be thinking why is the guy searching for his watches or cans 
 has a bag full of documentation and other paper, and we wouldn't want to do anything
 like this!
           
            GOOD LINE  (story): REMEMBER, really good line
 that can explain your actions can save maybe not the life, but your ass for
 sure, something like: I was today in this bank, and left my student ID on 
 the counter(wherever), and when i called them up they told me that someone 
 must have put it in the garbage, so i called the sanitation and they told 
 that today is the collecting night in that area and to search for the 
 wallet would cost me 70$, so i have decided to go and search for it by 
 myself! This is very good line, even security and cops have a heart, so 
 that can even explain trespassing, and shouldn't cause any problem at all, 
 maybe warning! Now here u want to keep in mind the situation u r in, if u 
 have a bag full of paper u should come up with explanation, which is not so 
 easy, to avoid this situation please refer to the paragraph on disguise!                                  
                                                  
            * DISGUISE:   It's extremely important to
 include this in your "action pack", what can be considered as disguise, is
 something that can support your great story, remember this old disguise, i'm
 sure most of u use, put a couple of cans in your bag, now u can bull shit
 security about collecting the cans for some competition or just for 
 yourself, very nice! But here something i made up myself, and it seems to 
 be working for me with any line i use: U know, a lot of old people actually 
 collect all the plastic bags, why would they buy new ones, so if u are 
 gonna put about 5 plastic bags in your bag, u can easily get of the hook, 
 claiming that your old grandma asked you to pick up some plastic bags on 
 your way, since she knows that your going to go through the garbage!
 (for whatever reason u told the cops) Usually they ask u to take out what 
 u have in the bag, u just look inside your bag and find your lifesaving 
 plastic bags, here u go sir, if the cop is really pain in the ass and finds 
 out that u have paper in the bag as well, just tell him that it must have 
 been in the plastic bags u 've found, and u didn't want to take it out here,
 because it's kind of embarrassing u know, if some of your friends see u 
 diving in the garbage can! hehe Yeah right, i guess that sounds nice! As i 
 said before cop too has a  heart and a little bit of brain so if your story 
 sounds LOGIC u shouldn't have a lot of shit on you! hehe Thats idiom!

      Another tip before u've started, don't hang around people's cars, 
 windows and other valuable stuff, u know people usually get pissed off 
 because of that!
 
               PRIVATE  HOUSING: trashing here can be very complicated, if u 
 don't know how to do it right. Here u are gonna have to deal with bags.
 (see SLASHING)  First of all u should think before doing this on the
 site: it will take u a lot of time, trash here is usually very dirty and if 
 u live in your own house or know some quite place outside, a good
 idea would be to bring a couple trash bags in your back yard. If u live in
 apartment like i do, here what u can do:  DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION
 in the big cities is very strict and always make up some shit like 
 recycling or just sorting the trash! Well i guess thats all u need, in NYC
 city looking for the papers u should check all the GREEN garbage cans, 
 where all the paper should be. U can go further and use you social
 engineering skills to call up people in the house, posing as an employee of
 the department of sanitation, and tell them that last time, workers found 
 in the their trash checks, bills and statements, which is illegal
 to put with the regular paper, because they contain some chemical            
 (dEnopEroXId......whatever)(i'm not Mendeleyev, neither have to be u) 
 which is none recycble, and can cause serious damage to the
 atmosphere :). SO next time please put all your checks, bills                 
 (whatever u want them to) in the pink bag, u can also ask them to mark it,
 something like "RADIOACTIVE" or "BODY PARTS", even can
 specify the date when they should take it out! hehe. So next time u'll be
 around u can easily determine where is everything u need. This
 method will work in the big cities where SANITATION is very powerful and
 strict, once i put my paper in the bag, and got ticket just because i 
 didn't wrap it up. 

                 GOVERNMENT and COMPANIES structures: all the garbage they 
 usually keep in the back yards, however if u don't see any drive access to 
 the back yard they probably take it out on the garbage day(a lot of banks 
 in my neighbourhood do that, because of the limited space in the backyard, 
 or because they don't have a drive access to it, they have to take it out 
 anyway) Certainly this can be the easiest way to trash, just wait until the 
 garbage day, go there and here u go, in front of the bank or whatever, u 
 see 3 or 4 carefully tied bags. If u want to be there first, u should go 
 right after the closing, and don't worry to be late for it, no 
 selfrespectful sanitation department will pick up the garbage earlier than 
 the middle of the night. 

                 SLASHING: Slashing the bags is the fastest way to open them,
 right!? If u gonna trash one of those big metal trash cans, u can dive in 
 and leave whatever mess u want, it doesn't really matter those big garbage 
 trucks will take the whole can, but when u trash private house it's very 
 important not to leave any mess after you. All the garbage from houses and 
 streets those garbage men will pick up with their hands, and i don't think 
 they will be happy to see slashed bags with all this mess around, the owner 
 will definitely get a ticket for that. The solution is to take another bag 
 where u can put all your mess, without getting hardworking men angry. U 
 gonna get used to slash the bags in the right places, so u won't get too 
 dirty and finish the damn thing faster.

                CAUTION : Right now, when u r reading this, someone can 
 easily be trashing you, so if u don't want to become victim of this 
 document, please do not throw away any papers that can reveal anything 
 from your personal data!


 release date:   11/97               by :     
                                                                              
                                                                               
   :::::::::::::::::::::::::   GOLDEN   DUST   ::::::::::::::::::::::::::
