                  Advanced Trashing Techniques
                  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

                           By: Jimmy'z



Introduction:

     Trashing is the simple act of looking through other peoples
trash; to find interesting stuff.  If you wonder why one would
ever want to consider doing such an act... Remember :  One man's
garbage is another man's treasure.
     
     The whole reason for trashing is to find INFORMATION.  You
could be interested in getting credit card numbers, computer
system passwords, industrial secrets, blackmail material,
ANYTHING.  99 times out of 100 it'll be in their trash.



Trashing Techniques:

     The best time for trashing is in the broad daylight *Unless
the place locks their trash*  Remember, if you act really
inconspicuously, nobody will bother you.  If by chance someone
asks you what the h*ll you're doing, tell them you're looking for
aluminum cans or something equally as stupid.  

     Remember to wear gloves, long sleeved shirts, and jeans of
some sort.  I've jumped into a few dumpsters containing fiber
glass, nails, and even once : SHIT...  It's a dirty business, BUT
IT CAN PAY OFF IF YOU DON'T GET DISCOURAGED.  Last time I went, I
found over 500 TRW credit reports (Roughly 750 credit cards, plus
TRW accounts, and passwords.)


Best Places to Trash:

     When thinking of a place to go trashing, you must first take
into account WHAT you are trying to find.  (You don't want to
trash behind McDonalds if you are looking for credit card
numbers.  I highly suggest you NOT trash at a McDonalds - why
look through all that crap.  If you are looking for cards, the
best places are malls.  Malls are good because they receive by
far THE MOST credit card payments.  Trashing really requires
thought on the part of the trasher, and with a little help from
me, you'll be on the right track.  

     Flower shops are good places to trash.  Most flower shops do
most or all of their business through credit (phone orders)  And
besides, would you rather look through some smelly, shitty crap,
or dead flowers?!  Another really cool place to trash is the
telephone company.  If you have one of those big telephone
company buildings, you'd be surprised at the types of data they
throw away.  Computer system's passwords, phone card numbers, the
list goes on.



Closing:

     Trashing can prove to be very fun, interesting, AND
PROFITABLE!  Just keep on doing it, and you'll stumble upon some
really interesting stuff.  You never know when you'll find a
briefcase or something filled with cash, or drugs.  Another
thing, when trashing - just jump right in there, leaning over one
of those dumpsters can start to hurt after a while!





Disclaimer:

     This file is for informational use only.  I am simply
reserving my right to free Speech!  I love The USA!


----------------------------[ J I M M Y ' Z]---------------------