                             Phile 1.13 of 1.14
                          FREE CALLS ON PAY PHONES                               
                           The Paper Clip Method
                           ---------------------
                             By: Master Mind 

     Many  of  people of the phreak community has asked the  same  question: 
Why?  Why does this thing work? I  doesn't work for me, Why?. Well, hopefully 
this article will put to rest many misconceptions about the procedure.  This 
procedure has become very popular, even in the movie wargames. In the movie, 
the  hacker twists open the microphone on the phone and connects one of  the 
two wires to the coin box. Then continues to make a long distance phone call 
to his girlfriend.  While the idea is correct, one can only make local calls 
and are limited to one quarter's time.  This scene is so close to the actual 
truth  that the "Made for TV version" has cut that specific  scene.  Imagine 
what  would happen if every youngster and some adults saw this and proceeded 
to rip apart pay phones,  not a pretty sight. This also demostrates how much 
power the phone company had. 
     Nynex,  in  creating  their fortress fones,  has made  an  engineering 
blunder.  The whole concept of the method, is based on their short-sightness 
and because of this are paying the price. The theory of the operation of the 
phone works like this on paper: The first quarter that is deposited seems to 
be  based  on an electrical impulse,  but any addition coins will  be  audio 
signals.  Due  to short cuts in engineering designs has left themselves open 
to attack.  By simply grounding the positive end of the  microphone,  enough 
current  and voltage is deferred to arter 
in the coin box.  An easy way to accomplish this is to connect the center of 
the mouthpiece to the coin box, touch tone pad, or any thing that looks like 
metal  with a piece of wire.  A most convenient piece of wire is a bend  out 
n
