
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 79
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
(Mr. Skolnick is  scheduled  to  appear  on Tom Valentine's radio
program, *Radio Free America*, at 9 pm cst  on  Tuesday,  May  7,
1996. The show can be heard on shortwave radio: 5.065 Mhz.)
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
WILLIAM COLBY and CIA DIRTY TRICKS
==================================
By Sherman H. Skolnick
----------------------
 
Once they find something that  works,  that is what they do.  So,
again and again CIA officials have been caused to "disappear"  or
have  been  murdered.   It  is  better  than having to make messy
explanations.  A favorite cover story is the boat scenario or the
plane crash, actually sabotaged.
 
In 1972, Dorothy Hunt, herself higher up in CIA than her husband,
died  along  with  eleven  other Watergate figures in a sabotaged
plane crash in Chicago.  She  was  the wife of Watergate burglar,
E. Howard Hunt.  Together, they had blackmailed some two  million
dollars  out  of  Nixon  to  stay shut about what they knew about
Nixon's  role  in   arranging   the  political  assassination  of
President Kennedy.  Her plan had been to transfer in Chicago to a
private plane at a suburban airport to take her to  an  important
meeting  of  her  associates  in  the  Caribbean.  She reportedly
survived the pancaking of  the  plane  but  was murdered by those
among a 150-person FBI team that took over  the  crash  site  and
excluded  the  local  fire  and  police.   Her  associates in the
Caribbean disappeared and all that was found was their boat.
 
In 1978, a  CIA  officer,  suspected  of  being  a Soviet "mole",
disappeared and his empty boat was  found  near  Chesapeake  Bay.
Without  waiting to investigate, the local authorities were quick
to state there was no foul play.   Later, a body was found with a
shot in the head.  The authorities quickly stated it was the  CIA
official,  John  A. Paisley, and that he supposedly had committed
suicide.  They ignored his wife's vigorous protests that the body
was the wrong  height  to  be  that  of  her husband.  Later, the
Senate Intelligence Committee, always  friendly  to  CIA,  stated
that  there  was no credible evidence to show Paisley's death was
other than a suicide.   The  investigative  report was never made
public,  apparently  for  reasons  of  "national   security",   a
catch-all cover up term.
 
Then  there  is  the  case  of  William Colby, former Director of
Central Intelligence,  who  disappeared  and  his  empty boat was
found in the shallows of  a  Potomac  River  tributary  near  his
southern Maryland retreat.  (On the map, not so very far from the
disappearance   of  Paisley.)   Quite  a  bit  of  background  is
necessary to understand Colby.
 
During the war in Southeast  Asia, William Colby headed the CIA's
"Phoenix Assassination" Program, murdering some 68,000 Vietnamese
for no better reason than they were on a list of those  with  the
wrong  politics  or  supposedly  opposed  the  Saigon government,
puppets of the American CIA.  Also, starting in the 1970s, if not
earlier, he was the  overseer  of  a  strange, almost secret bank
called the  Nugan-Hand  Bank,  with  facilities  stretching  from
California, to Australia, to the Philippines, Southeast Asia, and
Saudi  Arabia.   Top  U.S.  Admirals  and Generals operated their
various offices.
 
In its basic form, the  Nugan-Hand Bank handled CIA covert funds,
financed  worldwide  CIA-sponsored  assassinations,  washed  dope
money, and aided U.S. military personnel to launder illicit loot,
from dope dealing, gambling,  sale  of  U.S.  military  equipment
stolen in great quantities from and during the Viet Nam War.
 
One  of the founders of the Nugan-Hand Bank was found murdered in
1980.  On his body was the card of William Colby.  Not publicized
much in the U.S. was the investigation of a government commission
in Australia.  Colby and  the  Generals  and the Admirals ran the
bank.  The sordid details are in  Jonathan  Kwitny's  book,  "The
Crimes of Patriots".
 
Some   apologists   for  Colby  contend  he  aided  one  or  more
Congressional investigations in the  1970s of CIA, supposedly for
reform, such as the Senate Committee headed by the  late  Senator
Frank  Church.   While  outlining  CIA plots against Cuba's Fidel
Castro, these Congressional committees  never  saw fit to inquire
into the doings of the Nugan-Hand Bank and William  Colby's  role
with it.
 
Upon  the  supposed  collapse  of the Nugan-Hand Bank, supposedly
wiping out the secret  deposits  of various U.S. Military people,
their successor and alter ego became what  was  called  Household
International.   The world headquarters of the operation moved to
the Chicago suburb  of  Prospect  Heights.   Colby,  who had been
Director of Central Intelligence  from  1973-1976,  continued  on
after   1980   as   the  overseer  of  the  new  name,  Household
International.  Subsidiaries,  actually  and  technically savings
and loans, were called Household Bank.
 
In the 1980s, some thirty or more savings and  loan  associations
were  secretly  taken over by CIA, for use to funnel covert funds
for bloody and dirty tricks.   After the operation was concluded,
the money was sucked out, and the particular S&L "collapsed".   A
highly skilled Texas journalist detailed the doings of some 26 of
these  CIA-S&L  operations  which  went  "bust"  and the clean-up
arranged supposedly by the  federal deposit insurance authorities
at the great damage and detriment of the taxpayers.  One  of  the
S&Ls  was run by one of George Bush's sons.  See:  Pete Brewton's
heavily documented work, "The Mafia, the CIA, and George Bush".
 
Three or  more  CIA-S&Ls,  not  mentioned  in  the  book, were in
Illinois, in the Chicago area.
 
CLYDE SAVINGS & LOAN.  A director of this reputed  CIA  operation
was Congressman Henry Hyde who wore two hats.  First, he was head
of  the  CIA's "black budget" with more actual authority than the
Director  of  Central  Intelligence.    Second,  he  has  been  a
Congressman, on the House Intelligence Committee.  More recently,
Hyde became chairman  of  the  House  Judiciary  Committee,  with
authority to decide who, if anyone, is subject to impeachment for
being a corrupt federal judge.
    Does  it  not  violate  the  U.S.  Constitution's  mandate of
Separation of Powers, for Hyde  to  be  both a Congressman at the
same time he is head of CIA's "black budget" for dirty tricks?
    The Federal Savings  and  Loan  bail-out  agency,  Resolution
Trust  Corporation  [RTC],  brought  an action in Chicago Federal
District  Court,  accusing  Hyde  of  various  misconduct  in the
downfall of Clyde Savings.  Case No. 93 C  2477.   The  case  was
being heard by Chicago Federal District Judge Brian Barnett Duff,
closely  aligned  with  the Federal Reserve and a crony of George
Bush.   Judge  Duff  is  no   stranger  to  covering  up  massive
corruption.  In 1990-91, he had the case  involving  the  Federal
Reserve  Board,  the  House  Banking Committee, and Italy's Banca
Nazionale Delavoro, Italy's  largest  bank  owned  in part by the
Vatican.  At issue were records of BNL's Chicago branch, relating
to the private  joint  business  ventures  of  Iraq's  strongman,
originally installed by CIA, Saddam Hussein, and Hussein's secret
business partner.  Judge Duff ordered the records be kept secret.
This   writer  and  his  associates  were  the  only  journalists
attending the federal appeals  hearing  of  the  BNL case in May,
1991.  I interviewed two of the participants who told me that the
secret private business partner of Saddam Hussein has been George
Bush, at the time U.S.  President.   Involved  were  BNL  records
relating  to  oil kick-backs from the whole Persian Gulf area for
the decade 1980, to 1990, 25 billion dollars per year kick-backs,
shared by Saddam Hussein  with  George  Bush and Bush's circle of
cronies; 25 percent of one trillion dollars of oil shipped to the
West in that decade, 25 billion dollars  per  year,  250  Billion
Dollars total.
    So  Judge  Duff  knew  how to torpedo controversies and cover
them up.  At a crucial  point  in  the case against Henry Hyde, a
CIA attorney appeared in chambers with Judge Duff, and  persuaded
Duff  -- as if persuading were needed -- that all key records are
to be kept secret.   In  a  later  trick,  Judge Duff arranged to
delay a trial on key issues for several  years  by  certifying  a
piece-meal  appeal,  usually  not permitted -- all to protect CIA
and Hyde.
 
LIBERTYVILLE SAVINGS &  LOAN.   A  director  of  this CIA S&L was
Charles Hunter  who  was  the  chief  financial  officer  of  the
drugstore  chain,  Walgreen's.   Hunter  actually  ran Walgreen's
since the CEO,  "Cork"  Walgreen,  spent  two  weeks of the month
vacationing in Florida.  RTC sued  Charles  Hunter  in  Chicago's
Federal District Court, accusing Hunter and others of causing the
downfall  of  Libertyville  S&L,  Case No. 91 C 1741.  Accused of
causing damages of  more  than  42  million  dollars, the details
could have great impact on Hunter's role with Walgreen's, showing
violation of his fiduciary duties as chief financial  officer  of
Walgreen's.
    Hearing  the case was Chicago Federal District Judge Harry D.
Leinenweber -- wife, Lynn Martin,  was  Secretary of Labor in the
Bush Administration.  (We confronted her on a  radio  talk  show,
asking   her   to   explain  why  her  husband  the  Judge  never
disqualified himself when several cases  were on his docket which
she as Labor Secretary was shown as a party  to  the  case.   She
replied, she never asked her husband about his Court work.)
    To  cover  up  the CIA S&L case, Judge Leinenweber reportedly
received a gift, or bribe,  of  some 17 million dollars.  The RTC
officials bringing the case looked the other way, as they did  in
corrupt doings related to Bill and Hillary Clinton.
 
OLYMPIA  SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION, reportedly operated by CIA
in a suburb of  Chicago.   Overseer  in this operation reportedly
has been Dr. Earl Brian, a  financial  industry  and  mass  media
heavyweight.   In  various  books,  he  is accused of being a key
player in the "October Surprise", guns and money funneled to Iran
to have them delay release  of  the  U.S. hostages so as to wreck
Jimmy Carter's bid for re-election as president and help  install
the  Reagan/Bush  ticket.  The hostages were released in January,
1981, just as Reagan was being sworn in as the new President.
    Dr. Earl Brian reportedly  played  a  key  role in the INSLAW
Affair.  He also owned Channel 66 TV, just south of  Chicago,  in
an area that is the reputed U.S. entry point for the smuggling in
to  this  country of "China White", high purity heroin.  He ran a
financial  espionage  operation  called  Financial  News Network.
Brian has been prosecuted in Los Angeles  Federal  Court,  for  a
scam  using  FNN;  the  details about espionage and CIA have been
omitted  from  the  federal  criminal  charges,  however,  by the
federal prosecutor.
 
AMERICAN HERITAGE SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION.  Reportedly used in
part for washing CIA covert funds, the collapsed  shell  of  what
was  left  was  merged  and  taken  over  by Household Bank.  The
Federal Home Loan Bank parked 58.4 million dollars with Household
to satisfy claims pending  since  1983  by Joseph Andreuccetti, a
west suburban caulking contractor.  Andreuccetti was  the  victim
of a swindle that included the following:
    1.   Multi-million dollar condo complex in Addison, Illinois,
a west suburb of Chicago, a  very short distance from the home of
Henry Hyde.  Called Kingspoint  Condominiums,  in  the  deal  the
nephew/godson  of  Paul Marcinkus, namely Christian Henning, Jr.,
falsely claimed to  be  Andreuccetti's partner.  Marcinkus, until
1991, was the head of  the  Vatican  Bank.   Authorities  of  the
Republic  of  Italy  contend  Marcinkus  was  part of a scheme to
launder dope and gun smuggling and political assassination funds,
on behalf of the Sicilian mafia and the American CIA, through the
Vatican Bank.  Bishop  Marcinkus  has  so far escaped extradition
from Sun City, Arizona, where he resides now, back to  Italy,  on
the  contention  that  the Vatican is a separate sovereignty from
Italy.
    2.  Marcinkus, originally  from  the long-known mafia-enclave
of  Cicero,  a  Chicago  suburb,  has  been  the  dominant  force
controlling First National Bank of Cicero,  a  reputed  Mafia-CIA
money  machine.   To  try  to  cover up a vast scam by Marcinkus,
Henning, and others, the Cicero  bank  used false loan details to
fraudulently push  Andreuccetti  into  *involuntary*  bankruptcy,
still  pending  since  1984,  Case numbers 84 B 10338, 10339, and
some ten related cases showing  the roles of Household, the First
National Bank of  Cicero,  First  Midwest  Bank,  and  others  in
skimming  off  funds  used for bribing judges and other political
officials.
    3.   Officials  of  the  defunct  American  Heritage  S&L, to
silence them, were prosecuted in the case of U.S. vs.  John  Best
et al.  The federal prosecutor, William R. Hogan, Jr., is a story
all by himself.  Reportedly trained and groomed by Special Forces
and  CIA,  Hogan  in a way is far too clever to have been just an
Assistant U.S. Attorney in  Chicago.  Hogan's extended family has
included those close to the Catholic Archbishop  of  Chicago  who
also  is  Treasurer for the whole Catholic Church for the Western
Hemisphere, from Canada to Argentina.
    Hogan was the federal prosecutor in a large group of cases of
the narco-terrorist street gang called the El  Rukns.   The  gang
previously  was  called  the  Blackstone  Rangers and was used as
computer  models  in  how   they  cowed  and  terrorized  Chicago
southside neighborhoods,  to  study  how  to  cow  and  terrorize
hamlets  in  Viet  Nam.  Until Hogan showed up, the El Rukns were
untouchable.  Their bail  bond  money  was  often supplied by the
traditional mafia.  The gang early on was financed by  CIA-linked
Foundations,  including  the  Charles Merrill Trust of Cambridge,
Mass. (Linked to Merrill-Lynch stock brokerage.)
    Hogan is accused by  his  Justice Department bosses of having
been overzealous in  the  El  Rukn  prosecutions.   Most  of  the
defendants  who  were  also  witnesses against other gang members
were already  in  jail  awaiting  trials.   Hogan  is  accused of
arranging sex and dope for some of the El  Rukns,  either  inside
the  jail,  or  transporting them to a federal office building to
have sex and dope there.
    Hogan's apparent defense is that  if this occurred at all, it
was arranged or supervised by his supervisors.  The more  serious
matters,  according  to  Hogan's  circle,  is  that  at least six
federal judges  in  Chicago  take  bribes,  as  known  to corrupt
officials in the IRS and the Justice Department; and that nothing
is being done by federal  authorities.   Among  those  reportedly
taking   bribes  is  Chief  Bankruptcy  Judge  John  D.  Schwartz
presiding in the Joseph  Andreuccetti  cases and related matters.
Schwartz previously was  a  director  and  stockholder  of  First
National Bank of Cicero, instrumentally interwoven in the complex
of   details   in  the  Andreuccetti  Affair.   According  to  an
undisputed admission  and  confession  in  a  related court case,
Schwartz has not filed a proper federal income tax return and has
an estimated off-shore net worth of 141 million  dollars  --  has
not filed a proper return in *30 years*.
    The  Kingspoint  valuable  property  was purchased by Wallace
Lieberman, on other  occasions  a  federal bankruptcy auctioneer;
Lieberman's partner in the deal was  Robert  Belavia,  a  reputed
mafia  kingpin.  Shortly after Marcinkus returned to the U.S. and
a few days after a complaint about Lieberman was made to the U.S.
Attorney in Chicago about  Lieberman, he was murdered, apparently
by an FBI agent (the same one, according  to  undisputed  federal
court records) who caused some 40 federal grand jury witnesses to
be murdered or to disappear in the proceedings in 1991-92, in the
INSLAW  Affair  (high  Reagan  and  Bush administration officials
accused of stealing  high  technology  and  selling  it to, among
others, sworn enemies of the U.S.)
    That  same  FBI  agent,  Mike  "Chuckie"  Peters,   flies   a
helicopter and plays a key role in the 1996 events in Montana.
    4.   In  a  federal  court  case  against top IRS and Justice
Department  officials,   involving   corruption,   an  undisputed
confession  and  admission  of  an  official  in   the   Criminal
Investigation Division of IRS shows:
    --  the higher ups at IRS stole the Kingspoint properties
    from Lieberman  and  arranged  to  hustle Belavia quickly
    into prison; that the IRS officials stole the  properties
    for their own personal benefit and caused certain related
    land  title  records  to disappear as part of a cover up.
    As shown  in  Case  No.  92  C  7048,  in Chicago Federal
    District Court.
    -- that the IRS  was  instrumental  in  covering  up  the
    disappearance  of  50  million dollars, parked by federal
    authorities  with  Household  Bank  --  on  which  Joseph
    Andreuccetti has a  long-pending  claim  --  and that the
    money was secretly  transferred  to  Little  Rock  in  an
    attempt  to  cover  up some 47 million dollars reportedly
    embezzled  by  Bill  and  Hillary  Clinton  from  Madison
    Guaranty S&L in Little Rock.
    -- that the Bankruptcy Trustee in the Andreuccetti cases,
    Jay A. Steinberg, has been  allowed and permitted to file
    false and fraudulent state and federal revenue forms  and
    tax   returns,   supposedly   in   the   name  of  Joseph
    Andreuccetti,  without  the   knowledge   or  consent  of
    Andreuccetti.
    5.  Steinberg is a partner in the huge law firm of Hopkins  &
Sutter, major counsel for RTC.  The firm arranged for two faraway
lawyers  --  Hillary Rodham Clinton and Vincent W. Foster, Jr. --
to work on the  left-over  problem  of a Chicago-area savings and
loan whose collapse was caused by fraudulent bonds  by  Clinton's
dope  and  bond  broker  crony,  Dan  Lasater.  Hillary and Vince
reportedly whitewashed hundreds of  millions that could have been
recovered by RTC.  Hopkins  and  Sutter  also  arranged  to  have
George  Bush's  son escape prison in the Silverado S&L scandal in
Denver.
 
              EVENTS ESCALATE AGAINST WILLIAM COLBY
              =====================================
 
By 1995-96,  matters  intensified  in  which  William  Colby  was
implicated,  in  one  way or another.  The First National Bank of
Cicero, dominated  by  mafia-CIA  darling  Bishop Paul Marcinkus,
recent head of the Vatican Bank, had been taken over by  Pinnacle
Banc  Group,  the successor and alter ego of the infamous Bank of
Credit and Commerce International.  It was becoming more and more
known, through items posted  on  Internet, and stories elsewhere,
that the espionage operation, BCCI, dominated by CIA, had not, in
fact, collapsed in July 1991; that Pinnacle was the new name  and
face.   Four  major,  international  news operations had the BCCI
bribery list, how they bribed  25  percent  of both houses of the
U.S. Congress -- 28 U.S. Senators and 108 members of  the  House.
Although   the   establishment  news  groups  had  the  list  and
corroborated its validity, they decided  not  to go with it -- it
would destabilize the U.S. central government.  Strange, but  the
list,  for  30  days, was a public record at the Bank of England!
This  writer  received  from  a  brave  journalist  the  list and
corroboration, and wrote a story about it in a  right-wing  paper
in  1991.  The publication received the list of names but deleted
them from the published story.   By 1995, the names were becoming
more and more known and the result:  an unusually large number of
representatives and senators suddenly decided to resign,  retire,
and  not  run  for re-election in 1996.  Some of them had already
arranged their re-election campaign literature.
 
It was becoming more  and  more  evident that former CIA Director
William Colby was directly implicated in the  dirty  business  --
now  implicating  the  Clintons -- of Household International and
Household Bank.  Colby  was  reportedly  directly involved in the
BCCI/Pinnacle  Banc  Group   espionage   operations.   The  Roger
D'Onofrio Affair in Italy [see CN 6.65] was not  going  away;  he
was  a  top  American  CIA official, residing in Italy, put under
house arrest for  being  involved  in  arranging  for the Vatican
Bank, in conjunction with the Sicilian mafia, to launder dope and
gun loot, smuggle gold, and sell nuclear bomb triggers  to  sworn
enemies of the U.S.
 
A member of the London Gold Pool, living near the First  National
Bank  of  Cicero, John Tarullo, was murdered in August 1995.  His
connections extended reportedly  to  the  CIA,  the Archbishop of
Milan, the FBI  Counter-Intelligence  section,  as  well  as  the
traditional  Sicilian  mafia.   Tarullo's  connections reportedly
extended to Judy Baar  Topinka,  a  close  crony  of the Bank [of
Cicero] and Marcinkus; she was elected Illinois  State  Treasurer
in  1994.  Did the Vatican Bank now have their agent in charge of
all the state public money  of  Illinois?  (She praised that Bank
and Marcinkus on this writer's public access cable TV  show  just
prior to her election.)
 
Also  becoming clear was William Colby's role in trying to get an
armlock on political  dissent  in  the  U.S.  Notice  the role of
Colby's close  crony  John  DeCamp,  an  attorney  from  Lincoln,
Nebraska,  in  trying  to  throttle  various  financial  possible
scandals,   such   as   Pinnacle   Banc   Group/BCCI,   Household
International, Household Bank, the Clintons and the strange death
of  National  Security Agency operative Vincent W. Foster, Jr. at
the time Foster was also a top Clinton White House aide.
  -- cronies of  the  so-called  Independent Whitewater Counsel
  Kenneth Starr were reportedly trying to push John  DeCamp  to
  be  in  charge of Joseph Andreuccetti and his explosive group
  of court cases. Luckily, Joe [Andreuccetti] refused.
  -- John DeCamp  reportedly  played  a  role  in attempting to
  control or manipulate  Oklahoma  Federal  Grand  juror  Hoppy
  Heidelberg.   Hoppy  was  attempting to persuade fellow grand
  jurors that the FBI and  other federal authorities have to be
  compelled to bring before the grand jurors certain data about
  John Doe #2, or even #3, in  respect  to  the  Oklahoma  City
  bombing  case.   A  reputed  government  counter-intelligence
  agent,  Lawrence  W.  Myers,  became  the chief investigative
  reporter -- if not  actually  the  controlling  force -- of a
  new, supposedly dissident publication,  called  Media  Bypass
  magazine, that went from  about  5,000 monthly circulation to
  near 50,000 in a very short time.  The militia movement,  the
  Freemen,  the  tax  protester movement, and others like them,
  somehow got the impression  that  Media Bypass magazine spoke
  for them.  Who checked Myers' background?  He was  reportedly
  highly  skilled  in  counter-terrorism,  an  expert  on  bomb
  making,  and  had  worked  for  the  adjunct  to CIA, namely,
  Wackenhut, on terrorist problems.  Myers wrote four published
  books on bomb making  including remote explosives detonators.
  The books  were  published  by  a  reputed  CIA  proprietary,
  Palladin  Press,  reportedly  supervised by William Colby and
  his cronies.
 
John Doe #3 reportedly was an Iraqi intelligence official brought
into the U.S. and kept  totally  surveilled and supervised by the
CIA.  Did the Iraqi  "spook"  help  the  American  CIA  create  a
so-called  terrorism  event  in Oklahoma City to promote possible
martial law to strangle growing dissent in the U.S.?  Or was it a
bungled event, done with U.S. central government complicity?
 
By April 1996 it was  becoming  clear  to some that William Colby
had to disappear or be thrown  away.   Household  International's
stock  took  a  tumble; they were forced to give away 54 of their
Household Bank units to the  Harris  Bank, a unit of the Canadian
bank octopus, Bank of Montreal, owned by  the  infamous  Bronfman
family,  big  in  dope, gun smuggling, *and* booze.  Not everyone
bought the mass media story that the Bronfmans actually paid over
200 million dollars for the Household Bank units.
 
About 10 days after  the  Household Bank-Harris Bank arrangement,
William Colby disappeared.  Colby's close crony, John DeCamp, was
supposedly advisor to Hoppy at the same time DeCamp was  attorney
for  Media  Bypass  and  closely  linked  to  Myers,  the reputed
"spook".  Some clever sorts  were  putting  two and two together.
Was  the  whole  magazine  a  trick  to  catalogue   and   finger
dissidents?   Did  Myers  and  DeCamp  almost  cause  Hoppy to be
arrested?
  -- a few days prior to  his disappearance, Colby was in Texas
  at a university seminar on the Viet  Nam  War.  Some  thought
  maybe  Colby  was  knowledgeable  about  POWs  who  the  U.S.
  government  cannot  admit still exist in Southeast Asia:  are
  the POWs made into "mules" in the dope trade for the reported
  benefit of Colin Powell and  his pals George Bush and Richard
  Armitage?  Did Colby whisper explosive items into  some  ears
  in or near the seminar?
 
Former  CIA  Director  William  Colby  was too involved.  So, the
mysterious "they" used the boat  trick,  to make him disappear or
for murder.
 
At  the  time of his disappearance, Colby was under Congressional
subpoena to testify.  Some  believe  his testimony could have put
Bill and Hillary Clinton in prison.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
Mr.  Skolnick  is  founder/chairman,  since  1963,  of the public
interest  reform  group,  Citizens'  Committee  to  Clean  Up the
Courts,  investigating  and  researching  judicial  bribery   and
political  murders.  Since 1971, he has been editor of a 5-minute
recorded  phone  commentary,  HOTLINE  NEWS,  (312)  731-1100,  a
regular phone call, on  24  hours  per day, changed several times
per week.  Since 1991, he has been a regular  panelist,  now  the
moderator,  of  a  weekly  public  access one-hour Cable TV Show,
"Broadsides", available to some 400,000 households.  His comments
appear on several news groups  on  Internet and on the World Wide
Web. Office, 8 a.m. to midnight, 7  days/week:   (312)  375-5741.
Call  before  sending  fax.   9800  S.  Oglesby Ave., Chicago, IL
60617-4870.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
I neither  necessarily  agree  nor  disagree  with  either all or
portions of the preceding.  Persons mentioned are invited to send
their rebuttals, of reasonable length,  to  bigred@shout.net  for
probable distribution.
                         -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

