
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 37
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
THE OKLAHOMA BOMBING AND THE STORY OF A MAGAZINE
================================================
By Sherman H. Skolnick
----------------------
 
Once in a great while there is a story that is hard to tell. And 
the writer and his friends and associates risk a great deal just 
to try to bring it out; to bring to you, the reader, the details.
 
This may well be just such a time.
 
It was before 10 a.m. (Eastern Time) in the offices of Media 
Bypass Magazine, in Evansville, Indiana. At the time, they were a 
recently started publication with a circulation of about 5,000. 
At the same time it was before 9 a.m. in Oklahoma City. The 
Magazine, operated by Tree Top Communications, Inc., the parent 
firm, had as its largest stockholder an old-timer named Jim 
Thomas. They were dedicated to publishing stories the mass media 
were afraid to touch.
 
The day was April 19, 1995. "A day that will live in infamy", to 
borrow the words of President Franklin D. Roosevelt in describing 
the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
 
At the time, in the Magazine's offices was Lawrence W. Myers. Did 
anyone at the Magazine that day note a key point? Others now 
claim Myers was there *before* 10 a.m. their time (9 a.m. 
Oklahoma time, Central Time). He wanted to be hired as a writer, 
to write about "serial bombers", presumably the "Unabomber". To 
demonstrate his credentials, he brought along four books authored 
by him, published by Palladin Press, of Phoenix, Arizona. Did 
anyone take note they publish items primarily catering to 
"soldiers of fortune", that is, mercenaries? Myers also said he 
wrote magazine articles.
 
His books apparently show how to build bombs from ordinary 
materials. And explicit instructions how to build remote 
detonators for explosives.
 
While in their offices, news came out that at a few minutes after 
9 a.m. (Central Time, 10 a.m. Evansville time), there had been a 
terrible bombing of a federal office building in Oklahoma City. 
Magazine officials immediately contracted with Myers, on a week 
to week basis, and dispatched him to Oklahoma City to report and 
write on the tragedy.
 
Myers is a "take charge" type. He soon became the Magazine's 
Chief Investigative Reporter. Myers also became, in effect, the 
gate-keeper. He decided what stories, if any, were worthy to be 
published by the Magazine. Most of the others at the Magazine 
were very young and inexperienced. Old-timer Jim Thomas was 
likewise apparently inexperienced in running a publication.
 
One of the investors in the parent firm tried to tell Thomas and 
others, to no avail, that some suspect Myers is actually a 
counter-intelligence agent, infiltrating and penetrating the 
Magazine operation to carry out some U.S. government agenda. Some 
penetration agents are under orders to infiltrate and destroy the 
targeted group, entity, or enterprise.
 
Myers had apparently been with Special Forces in Central America, 
particularly Honduras and most likely Nicaragua. Did Myers 
specialize in neutralizing so-called "insurgents"? Some claim big 
land-owners in Central America use "Death Squads" to silence 
dissidents. Did Myers at one time aid such bloody events? From 
various bits and pieces of data, and circumstances, some astute 
observers answer YES. In the back of his vehicle, some at Media 
Bypass observed Myers carries with him the full equipment for him 
to survive in the jungle.
 
Few at the Magazine -- if anyone there -- were experienced on 
espionage and putting things together to identify a penetration 
agent. No one there was listening to items tending to cast 
suspicion on Myers. For example, also in Phoenix, has been John 
Alexander, called Colonel by some and "Doctor". He founded the 
super-secret Delta Force, used to carry out clandestine missions. 
They are no strangers to assassinations, including "Death 
Squads", airplane sabotage, strange bombings, and much more.
 
Wherever there were meetings of the controversial militias, Myers 
would reportedly show up. Was it for the purposes of a story or 
really to pick the brains for some intelligence agency? Was Myers 
using his apparent infiltration and penetration of the Magazine 
to penetrate dissident groups following the Oklahoma bombing?
 
Without apparent disclaimers, the Magazine ran provocative 
advertisements, "NO NEED TO PAY INCOME TAXES" in big bold type. 
The ads went on to state, "Immediately stop paying income taxes, 
a tax no one residing in the U.S. is required, by law, to pay 
(though people residing outside the U.S. might be subject to the 
tax)." Media Bypass Magazine, February, 1996 issue, page 19.
 
A "shooting gallery" is a government counter-intelligence 
operation set up to identify, photograph or video, and neutralize 
"enemies of the state", such as, tax protestors, militias, 
Western State anti-federal government activists, and such.
 
Some fear that at the hands of Myers and others, Media Bypass has 
become part of a shooting gallery operation. Such a set-up saves 
money. Instead of government intelligence agents beating the 
bushes looking for dissidents, the dissidents identify themselves 
by responding to such noisy ads in so-called "anti-government" 
magazines.
 
Notice the time-table related to the bombing:
 
  1. Monday, April 17, 1995. A Special Federal Grand Jury, 
  under the wing of Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr, 
  reportedly hands up a sealed indictment, charging Hillary 
  Rodham Clinton with (a) bank fraud, that is, participating 
  with husband William Jefferson Clinton in misappropriating or 
  embezzling some 47 million dollars from a federally-insured 
  savings and loan; and (b) offenses bordering on treason, 
  namely, being the beneficiary of secret offshore accounts 
  purportedly payable to Vincent W. Foster, Jr., at one time 
  her law partner, as purported payment for arranging for 
  Jonathan Pollard to convey nuclear missile launch and 
  tracking codes to Israeli intelligence. Foster was the middle 
  man, on behalf of George Bush, while he was vice president, 
  and Reagan administration Secretary of Defense Caspar 
  Weinberger, to use a low-level naval intelligence analyst, 
  Pollard, to convey these topmost secrets to a foreign power. 
  After all, the Reagan-Bush team owed Israel a favor, for 
  Israel trans-shipping U.S. weapons to Iran -- a pay-off for 
  Iran delaying the release of the U.S. Embassy hostages, to 
  screw Jimmy Carter's bid for re-election as president, 1980. 
  Called "The October Surprise" treason by some, the hostages 
  were released a few moments after Reagan was inaugurated the 
  new president, 1981.
       A federal judge, crony of the Clintons, has kept the 
  sealed indictment sealed to this day.
 
  2. The evening of Monday, April 17, 1995, a plane-load of top 
  military brass crashes near Alexander City, Alabama. The 
  plane was apparently sabotaged. Two explosions in the air 
  were heard by a witness; one explosion on the ground. One top 
  brass was in a supervisory capacity to the highly secret 
  National Security Agency as well as the Army Security Agency.
       Like the book, "Seven Days in May", the passengers were 
  reportedly part of a military coup, to arrest, under the 
  military code, their Commander-in-Chief, William Jefferson 
  Clinton, for treason including, but not limited to, the 
  cover-up of the murder of his boyhood friend Foster who was 
  implicated with Clinton's wife in the Jonathan Pollard 
  Affair. Foster headed a secret bank spying project for NSA; 
  Foster had the equivalent rank of General in NSA.
       Was the plane crash near the secret Delta Force base in 
  Alabama? Why do some continue to suspect that Myers is 
  reportedly part of a team, working with the Delta Force, to 
  stop the few brave military brass dedicated to arresting 
  Clinton for high crimes?
 
  3. The bombing, Wednesday, April 19, 1995. The bombing 
  occurred before the expiration of the 48 hours by which 
  sealed indictments are in more ordinary circumstances 
  delayed -- to give the federal authorities time to apprehend 
  the named defendants in the indictment. Mainstream 
  journalists have confirmed, from their own sources, this 
  writer's exclusive stories about the sealed indictment. BUT, 
  those other writers, being cowardly and their editors being 
  newsfakers, are all silent publicly. The bombing changed 
  public psychology, favoring the Clintons.
 
  4. Saturday, April 22, 1995. For the first time in history, 
  the Independent Counsel, Kenneth Starr, takes the 
  depositions, inside the White House, of President Clinton and 
  of his wife, the First Lady. Was this, coming on this week of 
  April 17, just a coincidence? Note: A senior editor of Forbes 
  (later fired) contends he asked the White House to respond to 
  his inquiry about Hillary being the beneficiary for the 
  secret overseas accounts of Foster. He wanted a response by 
  the day that turned out to be the day before the bombing.
 
  5. Some contend there was high-level complicity -- in and out 
  of the U.S. government -- in the Oklahoma bombings (experts 
  claim it should be plural -- that pressure detonators set off 
  explosive charges on the building pillars -- the pressure 
  being supplied by the pressure from explosives in the 
  purported truck bomb).
       Were the bombings out to divert attention from the 
  treason charges of Monday, April 17, 1995? Of course, that 
  implies a great deal of pre-meditation in the events of the 
  whole week. Shortly after the bombings, in a rare 
  performance, President Clinton went on the "60 Minutes" CBS 
  program. Appearing highly rattled, Clinton said there is an 
  element in the country -- the militias -- trying to overthrow 
  the federal government.
       Left unsaid: that it is justified for him as President 
  and Commander-in-Chief to murder any group of military 
  officers trying to stage a coup, such as those killed near 
  Alexander City, Alabama, April 17, 1995. Clinton reserved the 
  right, left unsaid, to invoke the emergency fiats put into 
  supposed "law" by him, in June, 1994, giving him authority 
  above the U.S. Constitution. One of the provisions: that no 
  court shall have authority to consider a challenge to such 
  emergency authority.
       That is, using the bombings to engage in repression 
  against dissidents and other outspoken types, as well as the 
  American people in general.
 
  6. A Special Federal Grand Jury, in Alabama, has been blocked 
  from investigating the sabotaged air crash near Alexander 
  City, the apparent related Delta Force secret base of 
  operations, and the murders, by air sabotage, to abort the 
  coup attempt.
 
  7. While all these events have been happening, certain 
  persons, purporting to be intermediaries for Independent 
  Counsel Starr, have been travelling around the country, 
  supposedly interviewing witnesses on related matters. What 
  they have been actually doing apparently is the following:
       (a) gathering data to be used for their own personal 
  advantage, financially and otherwise, as a power base, 
  through blackmail and extortion; in Arkansas and elsewhere, 
  in and out of public office.
       (b) identifying and listing what witnesses, sources of 
  evidence and testimony, have to be snuffed out -- or what 
  witnesses, whose testimony is "for sale" can be paid to shut 
  up or alter their testimony with perjury. For example: in the 
  Chicago area was a long-time member of the London Gold Pool, 
  previously active with NSA official Vincent W. Foster, Jr., 
  in clandestine gold transactions for espionage work. The Gold 
  Pool member was part of a circle active with Propaganda-Due 
  [DOO-ay]; known as P-2, Judges, Secret Police, Legislators, 
  Cabinet Members, and Journalists, Italy, France, England, and 
  the United States, devoted to overthrowing representative 
  government through the "politics of tension", bombings, 
  assassination, and terror. In short, violence and major 
  disruptions blamed falsely onto dissidents.
       The Gold Pool member's team not only included Foster, 
  but reportedly the Archbishop of Milan, Italy. The Gold Pool 
  member, John Tarullo, was murdered in August, 1995. He had 
  failed in his assignment, which was to completely control 
  those involved in the 50 million dollar secret transfer of 
  federal funds from Chicago to Little Rock. The funds, held in 
  custody for the federal S&L bail-out agency, Resolution Trust 
  Corporation, were misappropriated to make good the purported 
  embezzlement of 47 million dollars from a federally-insured 
  S&L, namely Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan, done reportedly 
  by Hillary Rodham Clinton, with the aid of her husband -- 
  that is, the subject of one part of the sealed indictment of 
  April 17, 1995. (The 3 million dollar difference -- between 
  47 and 50 million -- was for "street tax", bribery of public 
  officials to smooth the way.)
       Tarullo had failed to protect Household International 
  and Household Bank, which had custody of the funds, part of a 
  profound series of scandals known as the Joseph Andreuccetti 
  Affair {1}. Household was the successor to the CIA-money 
  laundry, the Nugan-Hand Bank of Australia. (See: "The Crimes 
  of Patriots", by Jonathan Kwitny.)
 
 
Apparently implicated in the events of the 50 million dollar 
transfer reportedly was Lawrence W. Myers. He was reportedly part 
of a project of a clandestine nature with the Little Rock office 
of RTC. Did operatives of Delta Force, with the aid of Myers, 
snuff out Tarullo? It is a fair presumption. Myers has sought to 
block publication of stories related to Foster, Pollard, 
Weinberger, Bush, Hillary, Household International and CIA, as 
well as the Gold Pool member, [and] the Andreuccetti Affair.
 
The counter-intelligence operation of which Myers is reportedly 
an integral part interfaces with highly secret units of MIG, 
Military Intelligence Group (they were known for violence and 
dirty tricks going back to 1970 and before, as documented in 
Sherman H. Skolnick vs. 113th Military Intelligence Group, also 
known [as a cover] as Midwest Audio-Visual News, U.S. District 
Court, Chicago, 1970.)
 
A London newspaper uncovered Congressional documents tending to 
show MIG were involved in stripping Foster's office or nearby 
offices after his murder as well as part of a vast cover up of 
his manner of death. ("Riddle of Spooks in the White House" by 
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, London Daily Telegraph 1/27/96; 
Electronic version 1/29/96).
 
The apparent penetration and infiltration of Media Bypass 
Magazine seems to be just one of several happenings of a secret 
team of which Lawrence W. Myers appears to be a part. Their 
efforts started prior to the Oklahoma bombings. This, by itself, 
tends to prove or support charges that there is a high-level U.S. 
government complicity in the bloodshed of the federal office 
building calculated to be blamed onto dissidents.
 
Some months ago, upon the suspicions and complaints of some 
connected to Media Bypass Magazine, Myers was fired, but then 
rehired reportedly on the same day, upon his representations that 
he could boost circulation with an exclusive interview with the 
accused, so-called "lone bomber", Timothy McVeigh (published in 
the February, 1996 issue of the magazine). Left unpublished and 
unmentioned is the reported method Myers used to get into the 
prison with the blessings of the Warden and the U.S. Prison 
system: Myers reportedly used his espionage agency "muscle" to 
have the prison door swing open so he could enter and get an 
exclusive interview with McVeigh.
 
The exclusive interview enabled Myers to keep his job and 
continue his reported penetration and infiltration of Media 
Bypass Magazine for the apparent purpose of eventually destroying 
them and damaging and discrediting various categories of 
dissidents nationwide.
 
As of the time of this article [ca. 03/03/96], various persons 
are planning to attend an urgent meeting for the purpose of 
seeking to remove Myers from the Magazine. For example, the top 
official of Jeremiah Films (1-800-828-2290) reportedly has 
accused Lawrence W. Myers of being a counter-intelligence 
operative. This official has to be considered since his firm 
regularly runs a full-color advertisement on the back cover of 
the Magazine bringing in approximately $3,000.00 per month. With 
current estimated circulation of 45,000, the Magazine might be 
justified in charging a lot more soon for the same type of back 
cover ad.
 
Why it may be difficult to remove Myers and/or expose him:
 
  (a) he is reportedly part of the most secret, super-powerful 
  secret espionage operation in the U.S. They have apparently 
  penetrated and infiltrated various dissident groups, 
  entities, publications, and movements. The espionage 
  community has invested tremendous dollars and manpower in 
  this undertaking.
 
  (b) to reportedly expose the Delta Force, MIG, and Lawrence 
  W. Myers would unravel the cover up -- done supposedly for 
  reasons of "national security" -- of the clandestine gold 
  transactions, billions of dollars, involving the London Gold 
  Pool, various money center banks in the U.S., Europe, and 
  Japan, and the Caymans, and Hong Kong;
 
  (c) and would reportedly expose the interface between Delta 
  Force, MIG, and Myers, and the extremely secret units of 
  DISC, Defense Industrial Security Command, guarding plutonium 
  and other nuclear facilities nationwide; they have the 
  apparent authority to murder "trouble-makers" and, if 
  necessary, throw their dead body near one of the security 
  fences and claim they had to shoot said person who was trying 
  to climb over the fence. Units of DISC, together with 
  security units of NASA, combined with Delta Force and MIG, 
  are reportedly implicated in the murder of Foster, the 
  handling of his body by a mortuary linked to CIA, and 
  creation of entities and news items as disinformation to 
  cover up the murder.
 
  (d) And could topple the central government in a high-level 
  scandal involving the murder of the highest level U.S. 
  government official to be assassinated since President 
  Kennedy, namely Foster; and cover up of the same.
 
  (e) And would reportedly disrupt banking connections 
  worldwide, since Foster headed the secret bank spying 
  project, using a "trap door" in the stolen Inslaw software, 
  called PROMIS, to spy on banks, including the central banks 
  of supposed allies and friendly trading partners of the 
  United States;
 
  (f) And could reportedly expose the 200 million [dollar] 
  swindle in high-level Reagan and Bush administration 
  officials stealing PROMIS and selling it to various espionage 
  agencies, using the "trap door" to spy on our allies;
 
  (g) And George Bush and Caspar Weinberger would have to be 
  prosecuted for treason in the Jonathan Pollard Affair as well 
  as the "October Surprise";
 
  (h) And reportedly would cause the collapse of Household 
  International and Household Bank, one of the largest credit 
  card and loan operations in the world. The major owner of 
  Household is Wells Fargo of which Warren Buffet is a major 
  stockholder. Buffet is one of the largest stockholders in 
  Disney, now owners of ABC News, of Coca Cola, and GEICO. 
  Buffet is also one of the largest stockholders of Washington 
  Post Co. as well as the bond house, Salomon Brothers.
 
  (i) And would tend to prove high-level complicity in the 
  Oklahoma bombings.
 
  (j) And would publicly expose the efforts to arrest 
  Commander-in-Chief Clinton by a military coup, like "Seven 
  Days in May"; a coup aborted by murdering high level military 
  officers in Alabama, April 17, 1995.
 
 
More than one book would have to be written to set this all forth 
with all the details. Are Myers' reported team members known? The 
answer is YES. By the way, this writer has over 30 years of 
experience in identifying spies, counter-spies, and agents- 
provocateurs.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
I neither necessarily agree nor disagree with either all or 
portions of the preceding. Persons mentioned are invited to send 
their rebuttals, of reasonable length, to bigred@shout.net for 
probable distribution.
                         -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} For more on "The Andreuccetti Affair", see archive: (a) 
telnet prairienet.org (b) logon as "visitor" (c) enter "go 
citcom" at the prompt (d) go to "Whitewater" sub-menu.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

