
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 8  Num. 77
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------

AMERICANISM vs. TERRORISM or TERRORISM vs. AMERICANISM
======================================================
By Gene "Chip" Tatum
--------------------

AMERICANISM VS TERRORISM

OR

TERRORISM VS AMERICANISM
(July 31, 1996)

DEFINITIONS:
        
        Americanism - A custom or trait originating in the United States.

        Terrorism - Violent acts or acts dangerous to human life intended to
control a civilian population or the policies of a government by use of
coercion, or assassination.

        At the prompting of the United States, western ministers adopted a
25-point cooperative plan last Tuesday in an attempt to track, stop, and
convict terrorists.

        The G-7 plus one (Russia) agreed to share information and resources
to increase surveillance of bank accounts, front organizations and the
internet.  Measures adopted during the one-day meeting included easing
extradition, stiffening penalties for possession of forged travel documents,
and restricting access to firearms and explosives.

        World leaders, angered by the recent explosion in Atlanta during the
1996 Olympic Games, called for a united action against terrorism.  "This
repugnant violation of the spirit of the Olympic Games must be denounced
around the world", United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said.

        Israel sent its condolences to Americans, still remembering their
loss to Palestinian terrorists during the 1972 Munich Olympics.

        Palestine offered condolences to the families of the victims and to
the American government.

        Condolences to the American government?  Wait a minute.  No U.S.
officials were hurt from the blast.  Or were there perhaps one or two
government officials that could suffer at the arm of terrorism.  During an
election year, an increase in terrorist activities can only hurt a sitting
policy makers' chances for re-election.  But doesn't it strike a heavy note
of discord to have the gold medal winner of terrorism, Palestine, coddle up
to the President, offering him their condolences?  But, perhaps condolences
are in order.  After all, terrorism is an act of retribution.  Certainly the
terrorists target was not a forty-four year old woman from Albany, Georgia.
Nor, I would venture to say, was it any of the 110 wounded concert goers.
Some journalists have hinted that the target was the American spirit.  But
I'm going to take a large step forward and tell you what the target of the
Atlanta Olympic bombing was...the American government.

        And how about the recent downing of TWA Flight 800?  Target?  Not
the aircraft, airline, or the passengers...but the American government.

        I recently read an article written by Tim Collie of the Tampa
Tribune entitled "Way of Life Faces Threat".  He begins like this:

        "In Israel, a stray handbag in a park or marketplace
         will send police and civilians scrambling...In Paris, 
        soldiers with automatic weapons are a common sight in
        airports, post offices, and tourist sites."

        Then he asks a panel of "experts" on international terrorism, "Is
that what life in America is coming to?"  The answer from the pros - NOT
YET!  Terrorism experts caution against over reaction, pointing out that
terrorist incidents have actually decreased steadily since the 1980s.  But,
let's look a little closer at that statistic.

        On cross-examination, the experts admit that the decrease is
actually a global statistic.  In fact, since 1993, the incidence of
terrorist threats and actual events in the United States has sharply risen.
To what do we, the American people who actually suffer the consequences, owe
this horrific statistic?  I can tell you with one word - retribution.  But
to be a target of terrorism as retribution we, the American people, had to
have done something to deserve this.  (In other words, it is an act of
redistributing something that was distributed.  Webster calls it
"retribution".  So, for example, if I did something to you and you did it
back to me, I "distributed" it to you and you "redistributed" back to me.
Thus "distribute" and "retribute".)

        What has America done to deserve these hideous actions?

        In 1986, I was recruited from military Special Operations into a
Black Operations unit code-named Pegasus, which was directed by Vice
President George Bush.  As a pilot it was my duty to deliver into and then
extract from the target countries a team of "Archers".  It was the mission
of Pegasus to "neutralize" specific targets.  The neutralization of these
targets was to be performed by any of the following methods:

        A.      Intimidation - Indirect use of coercion and termination.
        B.      Coercion - Blackmail, kidnapping, freeze accounts, etc.
        C.      Termination - A nice way to say assassinate.

        (Remember the definitions at the beginning of this article?)

        This neutralization was targeted toward foreign heads of state,
world financiers, drug kingpins, military leaders, and United States
citizens.  And the justification Vice President Bush used for our missions
was aimed at our patriotism, "in the name of democracy".

        "In the name of democracy" I participated in intimidating Daniel
Ortega, the President of Nicaragua, to step down from power and allow free
elections in Nicaragua.

        "In the name of democracy" I blackmailed a top political official of
the newly elected Nicaraguan government to follow all U.S. policy.

        "In the name of democracy" I assassinated three foreign politicians,
two military leaders, six foreign civilians, and three spies.

        "In the name of democracy" I was ordered to neutralize Ross Perot.
I refused in the name of Tatum.

        Contrary to what our government would have us believe, we have, in
the minds of terrorists, earned whatever they are able to muster.

        There is a constant pressure in global affairs from the American
government for foreign governments and peoples to follow the dictates of
America.  A good example is our intrusion into the daily workings of
sovereign countries.  Colombia, for example, has been decertified by the
United States due to President Clinton's perception that President Ernst
Samper of Colombia is a "bad person".  Bad person?  Here is a man that has
more U.S. DEA agents working in his country than there are combined in the
rest of the world.  Is he cooperating with Clinton?  Sure.  So, what's the
beef?  Let the man run his country.  "We the people," in the name of William
Jefferson Clinton, have chosen to deny the people of Colombia access to
loans from the World Bank, thus denying badly needed humanitarian medical
aid to this South American country.  Can this cause trouble for "we the
people?"  Possibly to the tune of retribution?  Of course.

        The great sense of Americanism which we portray is commendable.  But
we have no right to push our ideals or laws on foreign countries.  The
harder we push, the more freedom we will loose.  Every week President
Clinton announces a new plan by the Justice Department to make America "more
livable."  But instead of a more comfortable way of life, we seem to be
loosing all that our forefathers intended for us.

        Historically, big government doesn't work.  So the solution is to
cut back on U.S. intimidation both in the United States and outside the
United States.  Give the states more authority.  Deal less in foreign
affairs, especially dictating how a sovereign country should run its
affairs.  How would we take an aggressive attack on the United States by
India because we eat beef?!  Think about that.  All countries do not and
SHOULD not have the same laws and beliefs as Americans.

        To continue to pressure those countries to conform is terrorism.
That is a fact.  The U.S. government has adopted a high-tech form of
terrorism.  Countries around the world continue to ask the same question,
"Why does such a big, powerful country pick on a little country like us?"
We terrorize other countries by use of intimidation, coercion, and
assassination.  That is a fact.  If we continue on our present course,
thousands, possibly hundreds of thousands, of Americans will fall to the
hands of terrorists.  That is a fact.

        Instead, we talk of tightening restrictions, filling prisons with
those who speak out against American policy, and forming anti-terrorist
enforcement offices around the U.S.  Big government always sees the answer
as bigger government when, in fact, the solution is quite simple.  "Let's
mind our own business, Mr. Clinton."

        It is quite interesting that the rate of terrorism has seen a
drastic rise since the Clinton/Reno armada steamed into port.
Unfortunately, this two-man wrecking crew has no morals to base their
actions on.

        Reno, for instance, "takes the responsibility" for the murder of the
Waco group (which, may I remind you, included children).  What does that
mean?  Will she sign a plea agreement?  Or is she awaiting trial?  And what
about Ruby Ridge as the "top cop."  Negotiating her plea on that also?

        What should worry the American people is the direct line of
communications between the Department of Justice and the White House.
Americas' only hope in combating injustice is headed by an immoral, baby
killing saboteur of the American justice system.  And look who she reports
to.  Unfortunately for America, the spineless woman is nothing more than a
mole for the White House.  The Department of Justice is filled with good,
honest Americans, but their hands are tied by the use of intimidation and
coercion by Reno and Clinton.  A prime example of this is the statement made
by Mr. McCurry, White House Spokesperson, last week concerning the possible
use of a missile in the attack against TWA Flight 800.  The statement was a
warning to all government employees that revealing a missile attack against
the aircraft would cost them their jobs.

        I have heard much disinformation concerning both the availability
and ability of a ground-to-air missile use on a commercial jetliner.  Let me
dispel any question here and now.  I have first-hand knowledge that in the
mid-1980s, one hundred SA-7 (Soviet) surface-to-air missiles were purchased
from China by Ollie North.  The missiles were to be shipped to the
Nicaraguan Contras to be used against the Soviet gunships Hi-24 (Hind
helicopters).  They were shipped to Guatemala and CIA personnel acknowledged
receipt, but they never arrived in the Contra camps.

        In October of 1995, the U.S. was offered 130 Stinger missiles by
Afghan rebels.  Ther offer was refused (see Rodney Stitch letter dated
October 20, 1995).

        That's 230 surface-to-air missiles on the free market.  So, the
question of availability is answered.

        Now, let's talk about ability.  The SA-7 is a shoulder-held rocket
with a maximum distance of ten kilometers (6.2 miles).  The Stinger is also
a shoulder-held missile with the maximum distance of eight miles.  A boat in
the flight path of departing aircraft would be a good platform for a SA-7 or
Stinger launch.  Over 100 witnesses have told the story of the tell-tale
glow path arching toward the TWA Flight 800.  So, it is probable that a
terrorist's missile was used against the aircraft.  Yet the Department of
Justice and White House deny, to the point of threatening staff, the use of
a missile.

        Janet Reno took office in 1993.  Terrorist retribution took a sharp
turn upward by the end of 1993.  William Jefferson Clinton took the sacred
oath of office as the new President of the United States in January of 1993.
Since his oath of office, three major scandals involving fraud and murder in
the White House have surfaced, and a special investigation into Mr.
Clinton's involvement in drug trafficking is underway in Louisiana.  Surely
the President of the United States wouldn't be involved in trafficking of
cocaine.  Especially with his increasingly tough stand on drugs.

        Let's look at the proof being presented to the Special Prosecutor.
A flight plan has surfaced which reveals a secret meeting in Costa Rica
involving Governor William Clinton, Vice President George Bush, General
Manuel Noriega, and future Attorney General William Barr.  The topic of
discussion was the loss of $100 million in drugs and proceeds.  The loss
occurred somewhere between Panama and Arkansas.  The original flight plan,
filed in 1985, is in the hands of government officials.  The pilot made
notes on the reverse side of the flight plan when he returned to his home
base in Honduras.  That pilot was me.

        I was tasked with transporting not only top officials to clandestine
meetings, but transporting intelligence officers disguised as doctors, and
transporting explosives packed in coolers marked "medical supplies" to
Contra camps throughout Honduras and Nicaragua.  We found that, disguised as
a medical, humanitarian flight, we could transport any product world-wide
unchallenged.  For example, large coolers marked "medical supplies" were
transported from Honduras to various destinations in the United States.  One
of these destinations was Little Rock, Arkansas.  The true contents of the
coolers marked "medical supplies" was cocaine.  Another example of the use
by our government of coolers marked "medical supplies" involved the death of
Omar Torrijos, the Panamanian Chief of Staff.  As early as 1978 it had been
determined that General Torrijos was no longer needed by U.S. intelligence
agencies.  The United States had groomed a new man to stand watch over the
precious Canal zone, Manuel Noriega.  In July of 1991 a cooler marked
"medical supplies" was placed on General Torrijos aircraft.  (Historically
man does not question any action which carries the tag of humanitarianism.)
So, the cooler marked "medical supplies" was not checked.  The bomb, which
was the true contents of the cooler, exploded, sending the passengers of the
flight to their death.

        During this administration, the government, or more specifically,
the dynamic duo of Clinton and Reno, seem hell-bent on restricting our
privacy.  Under the guise of an increase in terrorist activity, thus
requiring tighter restrictions, Clinton and Reno have pushed Congress for an
anti-terrorism bill which would lengthen the arm of the government and
tighten their grasp on America.  However, earlier this year the failure to
provide such a bill by Congress prompted the Clinton administration to task
G-7 with tighter reigns on terrorism.  That summit was scheduled to take
place only weeks after the terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia, a week
following the mysterious downing of TWA Flight 800, and days following the
pipe bomb explosion in the Olympic Centennial Park.

        One question which must loom in the minds of the people concerns the
thought processes of terrorists.  Why would terrorists step-up their
activities world-wide in the weeks proceeding this summit?  It just doesn't
make sense.  And let me tell you...the terrorist community is savvy.  They
are well funded, they have a cause, and they are led by some of the most
brilliant minds in the world.  So now, I ask again...why the increase in
terrorism?  Has Americanism and our trek to improve the world prompted these
attacks on us?  I won't answer that.  I will say, however, it's a good thing
that a cooler marked "medical supplies" was not on  TWA Flight 800.
Otherwise, our prime suspects would be the U.S. government, more
specifically, Clinton and Reno.

        "We the people" are the only group in the world that are being
snafu-ed by this dynamic duo of Clinton and Reno.  We'd best wake up or we
won't have any roses to smell...only gladiolas on our loved ones' grave.

D.G. "Chip" Tatum
Codename: Pegasus
e-mail:<blackops@sundial.sundial.net>
P.O. Box 895082
Leesburg, FL 34789
Phone (352) 787-9846
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

