
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 8  Num. 43
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
ALPHA 66
========
(From the June 1996 Conspiracy Nation Newsletter)
-------------------------------------------------
 
The year is 1946.   With  the  defeat  of  the Nazis, the USSR is
shaping up as the big enemy  of  freedom.   In  Munich,  Germany,
ALLEN  DULLES  of  the  OSS, the Allies' WWII secret spy network,
begins recruiting Nazis to shelter under the umbrella of the U.S.
government.  Among other American  agents  working to recruit the
presumably dead Hitler's master spies are  RICHARD  HELMS,  JAMES
ANGLETON,  THEODORE SHACKLEY and WILLIAM HARVEY.  All these would
later become Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) big shots.
 
The CIA, officially born 1  year later, is supposedly formed just
to be a central clearinghouse  of  intelligence  coming  in  from
other  U.S.  government  intelligence  agencies,  such  as  Naval
Intelligence  and  Army  Intelligence.   There  is  also  a minor
provision in the  original  enacting  legislation saying that the
Agency is to "perform such other functions and duties related  to
intelligence  affecting  the  national  security  as the National
Security Council may from time to time direct."
 
The CIA takes the "minor provision" and, by 1954, has interpreted
it as somehow meaning it  has  full  authority to help topple the
legally elected government of Jacobo Arbenz in Guatemala.
 
Because of the "success" of the Guatemalan coup d'etat,  veterans
of  that  affair  are later selected by CIA "covert plans" Deputy
Director Richard Bissell to  help  with attempts to overthrow the
government of Fidel Castro's Cuba.  Among those chosen by Bissell
is E. HOWARD HUNT.
 
Just prior to "Bay of Pigs", MARITA LORENZ, then a girlfriend  of
Castro,  is  recruited  by  Alex  Rorke and FRANK STURGIS (a.k.a.
Frank Fiorini) to poison Fidel.  She smuggles two poison capsules
in a jar of cold  cream.   But  the cold cream melts the capsules
and the plot fails.
 
Then comes Bay of  Pigs:   on  board  a  U.S.  Navy  vessel  that
officially  "doesn't  exist"  at  that  time  and place, the "USS
Essex", is JIMMY  ROTHSTEIN.   He  and  others  are there to help
support the Bay of Pigs operation.
 
But the Bay of Pigs operation does not succeed.  CIA attempts  to
overthrow  the Cuban regime, however, still continue.  In October
of 1961, a plot to murder Castro by firing a bazooka at him while
he stands on  a  balcony  is  thwarted.   One  of the plotters is
captured by Castro's men; he is found hiding  at  the  estate  of
AMADOR  ODIO,  a  wealthy  Cuban.   Another  conspirator, ANTONIO
VECIANA, escapes to Miami.
 
Secret director of the "bazooka  plot" against Castro is "MAURICE
BISHOP", a cover name used by DAVID  ATLEE  PHILLIPS,  the  CIA's
Chief  of  Western Hemisphere.  "Bishop" suggests to Veciana that
he form  a  group  called  ALPHA  66.   It  becomes  an extremely
militant Cuban exile group.
 
In spite of the Bay of  Pigs  disaster,  President  John  Kennedy
remains   staunchly   anti-Castro.    JM/WAVE,  the  largest  CIA
installation anywhere  except  for  CIA  headquarters in Langley,
Virginia, is set  up  and  covert  actions  to  overthrow  Castro
continue.   Head of operations at the JM/WAVE facility (disguised
as "Zenith Technical Enterprises, Inc") is DAVID SANCHEZ MORALES.
Working  closely  with  Morales  at  JM/WAVE  is  JOHN  ROSSELLI,
originally  a  gangster  with  Al  Capone's  Chicago  mob.  (Also
connected with Chicago organized crime is JACK RUBY.)
 
By this time, assassination has long since become  part  of  U.S.
policy  and is a sizeable business.  Helping develop the weaponry
is MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III.
 
Castro is not feeling too safe,  what  with plots to kill him and
to invade "his" island and/or overthrow his government going  on.
Is  that  why his Soviet allies begin smuggling missiles to Cuba?
JFK finds out that missiles are  being shipped to Cuba.  And now,
as we all "know", comes JFK's moment of  glory  where  he  boldly
stares  down  Khruschev  until  the  Soviet  leader  "blinks" and
withdraws the missiles.  This is what  we are told.  But the real
story is that Khrushchev makes a deal with JFK:   "I'll  withdraw
the  missiles  if  you'll  stop going after Castro and Cuba."  We
don't  get  the  whole   story  because,  hey,  that's  politics;
President Kennedy wants to look "tough" to help him politically.
 
So at this point -- after the Cuban Missile Crisis -- JFK  causes
covert  actions  against Castro to ease off.  This in turn causes
the Cuban exiles to become  furious  and  to believe that JFK has
"betrayed" them.
 
GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, the  son  of  a  pre-Bolshevik,  Czarist
Russian  official, migrates to the United States in 1938.  During
World War II, he works  with  French intelligence.  He is friends
with  Mrs.  John  V.  Bouvier,  mother  of  Jackie  Kennedy.   De
Mohrenschildt is a "White Russian"; he is firmly  anti-communist.
In  the  early  1960s, he works as a consultant for several Texas
oil  companies.   For  some  reason,  de  Mohrenschildt befriends
"working-class drifter" LEE HARVEY OSWALD and introduces  him  to
the Dallas White Russian community.
 
Around  April  of  1963, de Mohrenschildt moves to Haiti and goes
into business with CLEMARD JOSEPH  CHARLES who works in turn with
Haitian President "Papa Doc" Duvalier.  Charles most likely works
as  Duvalier's  "bag  man";  i.e.  his  job  apparently  involves
bringing bags of money from Duvalier to U.S. politicians.  It  is
also  possible  that  Charles  was  a  conduit  of funds for CIA.
Decades later, one of  Clemard  Charles'  corporate fronts is the
St. Charles Pacific Peace Organization.   The  Treasurer  of  the
organization is Frank Sturgis.
 
In  September of 1963, "Maurice Bishop" calls Veciana of Alpha 66
and asks him to  come  to  Dallas,  Texas.  Veciana meets Bishop,
most  probably  in  the  Southland  Center,  a  42-story   office
building.   When  Veciana  enters  the lobby, he sees Bishop in a
corner, speaking with a young  man  -- Lee Harvey Oswald.  Oswald
leaves without having been introduced to Veciana.
 
Also in September of 1963, SILVIA ODIO, daughter of Amador  Odio,
the wealthy Cuban who hid one of the conspirators involved in the
"bazooka  plot", is visited by 3 men.  They come to her apartment
in Dallas one evening in the  last week of September.  One of the
3 men is Lee Harvey Oswald, introduced to her as "Leon Oswald".
 
In October 1963, Marita Lorenz, the girl  whose  poison  capsules
for  Castro had melted in her jar of cold cream, meets with Frank
Sturgis and a man she  calls  "Ozzie"  (Lee Harvey Oswald) in the
home of ORLANDO BOSCH.  They discuss "certain streets in Dallas".
 
In November 1963, Lorenz joins Frank Sturgis and other men  in  a
drive  from  Florida to Dallas.  They leave after midnight in two
old, beat up cars.  They arrive in Dallas and register at a motel
on the outskirts of  town.   At  the motel, "Ozzie" visits.  Then
later, they are visited by Jack Ruby.  Lorenz later asks Sturgis,
"Where'd you get that Mafia punk [Ruby]?"  Sturgis replies  that,
"I  made  a  mistake.  This is too big.  I want you to go back to
Miami."  Lorenz agrees to go back  to  Miami.  As she is about to
leave for the airport, E. Howard Hunt arrives.
 
In the Dallas JFK motorcade on November  22,  1963  is  HENRY  B.
GONZALEZ,
 
Filming  the  tragedy  in  the  JFK Deathmobile, from the "grassy
knoll", is Abraham Zapruder.   He  sells  the  film to TIME, INC.
which will not allow it to be shown to the public.  (The Zapruder
film was finally resurrected through the heroic efforts of Robert
J. Groden, author, with  Harrison  Edward  Livingstone,  of  High
Treason, an excellent book which explores the JFK assassination.)
 
Time-Life  and  its  owner  HENRY LUCE had actively supported the
Alpha 66 group.  Wife of Henry  Luce is CLARE BOOTH LUCE.  She is
friends with David Atlee Phillips, i.e.  "Maurice Bishop".
 
(As documented in Carl Bernstein's  article,  "The  CIA  and  the
Media"  [Rolling Stone 10/20/77], America's major news media have
been working hand in  glove  with  the  CIA.  Journalists who are
secretly paid by the CIA (in addition to the money they are  paid
by  their  nominal  employers)  are  known  as CIA "assets".  The
Agency invests its money  in  many  places.   In the early 1960s,
many so-called "committees" were formed -- for example,  Citizens
for  a  Free Cuba, Citizens Committee to Free Cuba, etc.  The CIA
established  some  of  these  "committees"  for  the  purpose  of
funneling cash and weapons to anti-Castro groups.)
 
VIRGINIA PREWETT is on  the  board  of  directors of the Citizens
Committee to Free Cuba.  She is also one of David Atlee Phillip's
("Maurice Bishop") media "assets".  She works, around the time of
President Kennedy's murder, as a  columnist  for  the  Washington
Daily  News.  where  she  writes articles favoring groups such as
Alpha 66.  Other  members  of  her  "Citizens Committee", who are
also  CIA  media  "assets",  write  stories  designed  to   point
suspicion  at  Fidel  Castro  as  being the instigator of the JFK
assassination.
 
The founder and executive  director  of the Citizens Committee to
Free Cuba is PAUL BETHEL.  Bethel has recruited Clare Booth  Luce
as  a  founding  member  of  his Citizens Committee to Free Cuba.
Bethel is a very close  friend  of David Atlee Phillips ("Maurice
Bishop").  In fact, Bethel, Phillips, and WAYNE  SMITH,  employed
by  the  State  Department  at  the American Embassy in Havana in
1960, had all been chums in  a little theater group there at that
time.
 
Paul Bethel writes for  WILLIAM  F.  BUCKLEY's  National  Review.
Buckley is a CIA "asset", takes instruction from Phillips, and is
godfather   to  one  of  E.  Howard  Hunt's  children.   Phillips
("Bishop")  works  through   JM/WAVE   to  coordinate  propaganda
operations of several Cuban exile groups.  David Sanchez Morales,
head of operations at JM/WAVE, later goes on to work with WILLIAM
COLBY and his "Operation Phoenix" in Vietnam.
 
(Operation Phoenix, according  to  New  Times  magazine  reporter
Michael Drosnin, "oversaw the creation of mercenary terror teams,
the  founding  of  a  vast  and  brutal  secret police force, the
construction of a  nationwide  network  of interrogation centers,
and finally devised Phoenix to coordinate  and  provide  a  legal
cover  for  the  growing  campaign  of  mass murder and political
imprisonment [in Vietnam]."  Phoenix,  writes Gaeton Fonzi in The
Last Investigation, "was a secret war  waged  by  hit  men."   So
Morales  gets  a  little  "hit  man" training or he is already an
accomplished "hit man" and  was  honing his skills.  Bottom line:
Morales is a "hit man" for CIA.)
 
(Recapping is hard to do at this point, but basically we have CIA
--> Veciana -->  Alpha  66  -->  Cuban  Missile  Crisis  -->  JFK
assassination --> media "assets" plant disinformation.)
 
Moving ahead in time, we encounter the Nixon Administration.  The
year is 1969.  President Richard Nixon launches what he calls the
"War  Against  Drugs";  Nixon,  nobly,  says  he  wants  to  save
America's kids from drugs.
 
Friend  of  Mitch  WerBell, since old OSS days, is LUCIEN CONEIN.
E. Howard Hunt, now  working  for  the  Nixon White House, offers
Conein a job running the "War Against Drugs".  By 1973, Conein is
chief of Special  Operations  for  the  Drug  Enforcement  Agency
[DEA].   Conein  recruits  at  least  a dozen CIA people into his
Special Operations branch of  DEA.   (That figure is estimated to
be higher by retired Brigadier General Russell S.  Bowen  in  his
book,  The  Immaculate  Deception.   According  to Bowen, by 1971
there are "more than 100 CIA-trained Cuban exiles, under cover of
narcotics  enforcement  [functioning]  as   a  White  House  goon
squad...")
 
Was Nixon's antidrug campaign in reality a bid to  establish  his
own intelligence network?
 
Was  Nixon's  "War Against Drugs" really the start of undeclared,
semi- martial  law  in  America?   Savvy  folks,  on  the lookout
against declarations of martial law, do not see semi-martial law,
disguised as a "War Against Drugs".  Remember:  the year is 1969.
There is massive unrest at home as the War in Vietnam has by  now
been essentially undermined.
 
1971:   Veciana  sets up headquarters in Caracas, Venezuela, with
purpose being to  recruit  an  experienced  "team" to assassinate
Fidel Castro.  Castro will be visiting Chile, and the plan is  to
shoot him at a press conference there.  The assassins are then to
be  arrested  by  the Chilean military before Castro's bodyguards
get a chance to kill them.  "Maurice Bishop" says that from there
he can arrange their escape from Chile.
 
Working with Veciana to  help  organize the assassination attempt
is LUIS POSADA.  Posada works for the Venezuelan secret police --
DISIP.  He is also working for CIA.
 
Invited to Caracas at this time by DISIP is Orlando Bosch, he  of
the  aforementioned house in Florida, Frank Sturgis, "Ozzie", and
the "certain streets in Dallas."
 
Lucky for  Castro,  the  1971  Chilean  plot  fails.  So, Chilean
military does not need to lend a hand.   President  of  Chile  at
this  time  is SALVADOR ALLENDE.  Allende, democratically elected
and a socialist, is  not  part  of  the plot against Castro.  Two
years later the Chilean military is again at cross-purposes  with
Allende.
 
From  1970  thru  1973,  CIA  pours $13 million of our money into
Chile, hoping to undermine President Allende.  Most of this money
is slipped to CIA "assets"  in  the media, with consequent effect
on the information received by the Chilean people.
 
HAL "THE SPOOK"  HENDRIX  works  for  International  Telephone  &
Telegraph  (ITT)  Corporation  in Chile.  A former "reporter" for
the  Miami  News,   in   which   capacity   he   had  pumped  out
disinformation about Lee H.  Oswald  immediately  after  the  JFK
murder,  Hendrix now (early 1970s) sends a cable to America.  The
cable goes to an ITT vice president.  It tells him that the Nixon
White House has given the  "green  light" for operations meant to
overthrow Salvador Allende.  Says Henry Kissinger, commenting  on
the  Allende  election,  "I don't see why we need to stand by and
watch a country go 'Communist' because of the irresponsibility of
its own people."
 
In September  1973,  Allende  is  overthrown  by  a military coup
d'etat.  Taking  over  in  Chile  is  GENERAL  AUGUSTO  PINOCHET.
Pinochet  and  friends -- the "junta generals" -- gain power with
help from ITT, CIA  and  David Atlee Phillips ("Maurice Bishop").
More than 10,000 Chilean dissidents are shot and/or  tortured  to
death  following  the  coup.   Among those arrested, tortured and
sent to  a  Chilean  concentration  camp  is  former  Foreign and
Defense Minister of that South American nation, ORLANDO LETELIER.
To quiet mounting international criticism, General Pinochet later
releases Letelier and lets him leave the country.
 
In December 1974, Orlando Bosch and other anti-Castro  terrorists
visit  Chile.   They  meet with the junta generals and work out a
mutual assistance pact:  the  Cubans  will help DINA, the Chilean
secret police, liquidate Pinochet's exiled enemies who have  been
bad-mouthing the Generalisimo from abroad.  In return, Chile will
supply  Bosch and friends arms, explosives, fake passports, and a
safe haven from which to operate.
 
By the summer  of  1976,  Bosch  has  united  many of the various
militant Cuban exile groups.   In  a  meeting  in  the  Dominican
Republic attended by representatives of these groups, a coalition
called  Commando  of United Revolutionary Organizations (CORU) is
born.  Within 10 months,  CORU  takes  "credit"  for more than 50
acts of violence:  bombings, kidnappings, and assassinations.
 
Among those assassinated is  Orlando  Letelier:   in  Washington,
D.C.,   Letelier   is   driving  down  Massachusetts  Avenue.   A
remote-control bomb  attached  to  the  car  explodes.  CIA media
"asset" Virginia Prewett writes a disinformation piece, in  which
she  suggests  that Letelier had been "sacrificed" by leftists --
in other words, the  leftists  knew  it would appear obvious that
Pinochet et al. was behind the  bombing  so  they,  according  to
Prewett,  took  advantage  of this obviousity and murdered one of
their own.
 
But, in fact, the orders  to  kill  Letelier had come from Chile,
through their secret  police,  to  CORU.   Letelier's  briefcase,
recovered  at  the  scene of the bombing by a homicide detective,
somehow finds its way  into  the  hands  of David Atlee Phillips.
Phillips,  in  turn,  distributes  its  contents  to   "friendly"
"journalists" and legislators.
 
Around  this time too, the body of mobster John Rosselli is found
inside a  drum  floating  in  the  waters  near Miami.  Rosselli,
linked to CIA through the JM/WAVE facility, had inside  knowledge
about CIA/Organized crime links.
 
Also  around  this time, the New York Daily News has headlines of
"Ex-Spy Says She Drove to  Dallas With Oswald & Kennedy 'Assassin
Squad.'" Marita Lorenz has decided to go public and disclose part
of what she knows.   James  Rothstein,  now  an  NYPD  detective,
receives  information  that an infuriated Frank Sturgis is on his
way to  Lorenz's  home  to  murder  her  for  talking.  Rothstein
intercepts Sturgis and arrests him.  Rothstein described to  this
editor what happened next:
 
  "I talked to Sturgis when I arrested him.  See, I had Frank
  Sturgis  two  hours  before  anybody  knew we had him.  And
  another thing:  see, I had been in the Bay of Pigs invasion
  on an aircraft carrier that  'didn't exist'.  And so when I
  grabbed  Sturgis,  after  we  had  him  under  control  and
  everything, the first thing I did was to  congratulate  him
  for  assassinating  John F. Kennedy.  I purposely did that.
  And when I told him that  I  had been on the Essex and that
  we had bombed that place for 3 days and 3 nights, he  said,
  'The  only way you knew that is if you were there.' Because
  it was unknown.  And after  that,  he  took me in as one of
  his [confidants].  We talked for 2 hours."
 
Chairman of the House  Select Committee on Assassinations, formed
in September of 1976,  is  Congressman  Henry  B.  Gonzalez.   In
October,  Richard  Sprague  is  chosen  as  the Committee's chief
counsel.  Gonzalez feuds with Sprague and eventually resigns from
the Committee.   He  flies  back  to  Texas  and  gives  an angry
interview to the San Antonio Express-News.   "The  Committee  was
programmed to self-destruct," rages Gonzalez.  "I'm aware at last
that  the  House  leadership  never  had  intended  for  the  JFK
investigation  to  fly,  and  indeed  had prefabricated the whole
thing for the skids."
 
In late March of 1977,  George de Mohrenschildt receives a notice
that he is being sought  to  testify  before  the  Assassinations
Committee.   Hours later, he dies of a shotgun wound to the head,
an apparent suicide.
 
Years  pass.   In  July  of  1988,  The  Nation  magazine reports
discovering a memo written by J.  Edgar  Hoover  of  the  FBI  on
November  29,  1963.   The  document  summarizes oral "briefings"
given on the day  after  the  JFK  murder  to, among others, "Mr.
George Bush of the Central Intelligence Agency."  Was  Bush  with
CIA  as  far  back  as  1963!?   Bush says the memo must refer to
"another George Bush."  CIA then  says the "George Bush" referred
to in the memo was a low-level researcher and  analyst  with  the
Agency,  whose  name  is  George William Bush.  But, this person,
George William Bush, gives a  sworn affidavit stating that, "I am
not that Mr. George  Bush  of  the  Central  Intelligence  Agency
referred  to  in  the memorandum."  Questioned further, President
Bush has the  White  House  stonewall  the  matter by refusing to
discuss it.
 
But Bush has apparently been with CIA since before 1961  and  has
worked  with,  among others, FELIX RODRIGUEZ who is also known as
"Max Gomez".  (You remember  "Max  Gomez":   he  showed up in the
last issue of  Conspiracy  Nation.   )  George  Bush,  using  his
company,  Zapata  Oil,  as  a  corporate  cover  for  his  Agency
activities,  has  worked  with the anti-Castro groups both before
and after Bay of Pigs.
 
In 1971, Bush joins up  with  the  "War on Drugs" gang; President
Nixon appoints him  to  the  White  House  Cabinet  Committee  on
International Narcotic Control.  In the mid-70s, Congress and the
Justice Department try to crack down on rogue elements within the
rogue  Central  Intelligence  Agency, but Bush, now CIA Director,
gums up the works.   By  1988, with the increasing militarization
of the "War on Drugs", Bush is riding  high  on  a  white  horse.
Mid-way  into  his  presidency  he appears on national television
holding a big bag of cocaine.  Says President Bush:  "This bag of
cocaine was purchased  right  across  the  street  from the White
House !!  "
 
Of course we know that Reagan/Bush,  through  Oliver  North,  was
helping fund and supply an illegal war against the Sandinistas in
the 1980s.  Part of the illicit scheme involved flying weapons to
Nicaragua's  Contras  out  of  an  airport  near  Mena, Arkansas.
Working  on  the  project  was  TERRY  REED,  author,  with  John
Cummings, of the bestseller Compromised.  Above Terry Reed in the
chain of command  is  "Max  Gomez",  a.k.a.  Felix Rodriguez, who
incidentally is the man who killed Che Guevara.
 
Terry Reed, currently suing  certain  persons  in  Arkansas,  has
hinted that another book may be forthcoming.  On a 1994 shortwave
broadcast  of  America's  Town  Forum with then-host Tom Donahue,
Reed mentioned that the  sequel  to Compromised most likely would
deal in part with Zapata Oil -- George Bush's company.
 
Which brings us back  to  Detective  James  Rothstein  (retired).
After  the  April  1995  OKC bombings, Rothstein was hired and/or
asked by a wealthy Chicago businessman to go down to Oklahoma and
find out exactly what  happened.   Based on what Rothsteain found
out as well as on other information I have, here is what probably
happened.  Note that the following scenario still has gaps and is
subject to change when/if further info becomes available.
 
McVeigh returns from the Gulf War. He wants to get  into  Special
Forces but he apparently doesn't make it and "washes out" at Fort
Bragg.   Also,  subsequent  to  the  Gulf  War,  some  Iraqis are
recruited into U.S.  intelligence.   It's  worth  noting that Dr.
Michael Parenti  has  stated  that  Saddam  Hussein  himself  was
"owned"  by CIA but that something went wrong -- perhaps he, like
Barry Seal and Ron Brown, got too greedy.
 
So McVeigh becomes a "drifter"  -- or possibly a government agent
of some type if his "washing out" from Special Forces  is  itself
just  a  cover  story.   After  the Waco Massacre he demonstrates
strong feelings of outrage about what happened.  He may have been
duped  into  a  BATF   "sting"   operation  where  a  BATF  agent
provocateur  provided  him  with  a  Ryder  truck   filled   with
explosives  and  asked  him  to drive it to Oklahoma City.  Going
along for the ride  with  McVeigh  is  the elusive "John Doe #2".
Unbeknownst to McVeigh but  known  to  John  Doe  #2  is  that  a
"beeper" -- a remote tracking device -- is attached to the truck.
This  allows  BATF  to maintain a "loose tail" on the truck; they
can follow the truck even  though  they are miles away.  The plan
seems  to  be  to  stop  McVeigh  at  the  last  minute,  thereby
(hopefully)  giving  BATF  dramatic,  heroic,  last-minute-rescue
footage for "news" programs  which  in  turn  might  help  BATF's
public image.
 
After  the  Gulf  War,  Saddam  Hussein is supposedly angry about
something.   Perhaps  he   feels   that   his  CIA  buddies  have
double-crossed him.  Unbeknownst to BATF and  U.S.  Intelligence,
John Doe #2, riding with McVeigh, is actually a double-agent with
a  mission  from  Saddam  Hussein:   possibly revenge of some/any
sort.  John Doe #2 secretly  removes the "beeper" from the truck.
Now BATF is in a panic.  They have lost the truck!  All  that  is
known  is  that the truck is going to Oklahoma City.  There is an
emergency.  Every available BATF  agent  is called out.  (That is
why there were no BATF in the Murrah Building when the bombs went
off; they were all out on the street, looking for  McVeigh.)   In
the  early  morning  hours  of  April  19,  1995, BATF agents are
spotted by several witnesses all  over Oklahoma City.  The agents
carry wire hoops with which they desperately hope to pick up some
signal from the "beeper".  (They of course still don't know  that
the "beeper" has been disabled.)
 
Meanwhile,  other  Iraqi  agents have entered the Murrah Building
carrying satchels  loaded  with  high-powered  explosives.  These
satchels are placed against key support columns.
 
That morning, the truck pulls up in front of the Murrah Building.
Perhaps McVeigh believes that the  explosion  will  not  be  very
powerful;  perhaps  he  is unaware of the other explosives placed
against certain  support  columns  in  the  building.   Some have
speculated that the real explosives, the ones  in  the  satchels,
were connected to air-pressure detonators and that the truck bomb
only served as a means to set off the detonators on the satchels.
McVeigh  and John Doe #2 leave the truck, start the timing device
to explode the truck, then get into an automobile and drive away.
A few blocks from the  scene,  John  Doe  #2 gets out of the car,
changes the license plate, and then gives  McVeigh  the  O.K.  to
drive  off.   But,  one  last little thing John Doe #2 does is to
make  sure  the  new  license  plate  on  McVeigh's  car  is  not
well-attached, thus making it likely he will be pulled over.
 
McVeigh may have  believed  he  was  making a relatively harmless
"statement" on the  2-year  anniversary  of  the  Waco  Massacre.
Little  did  he know that the waters were deeper than he thought.
Same too with  BATF:   they  perhaps  believed  that a relatively
harmless "sting" operation --  wherein  McVeigh  would  first  be
tempted by an agent provocateur and then arrested by BATF, a "bad
cop"  "good  cop"  routine  --  was  in the works but, again, the
waters were deeper than they had supposed.
 
But Rothstein adds that there is more to this than his outline of
events.  I would have to  agree:   the investigation into the OKC
bombings is, according to  McVeigh's  defense  attorney,  Stephen
Jones,  "the largest criminal investigation in the history of the
U.S., larger than  Kennedy's  death,  larger  than  Oswald by any
standard."   Other  elements  that  somehow  tie   in   are   (1)
co-defendant  Terry  Nichols  travels  to  the  Phillipines, then
somehow has bricks of silver  stashed  away in a storage facility
-- where'd he get all the silver?   (2)  Andreas  Strassmeir,  an
ultra-right   German,  may  have  been  involved  in  the  "sting
operation"; Strassmeir, now back in Germany, denies this.
 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
Views  expressed  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the   views   of
Conspiracy  Nation nor of its editor.  Main source for this issue
was The Last Investigation by  Gaeton Fonzi (New York:  Thunder's
Mouth Press, 1993).  Other books consulted were High  Treason  by
Robert  J. Groden and Harrison Edward Livingstone, The Immaculate
Deception by Russell S. Bowen, and Deep Politics and the Death of
JFK by Peter Dale Scott. 
 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

