
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 8  Num. 18
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
CLANDESTINE PROJECTS
====================
By Sherman H. Skolnick
----------------------
 
A Chicago-based financial octopus  may  be the clue that unravels
Crime-Whitewatergate and blows the lid off the  volcanic  mystery
of  the  death  of  Clinton White House deputy counsel Vincent W.
Foster, Jr. And plenty more than that.
 
Based  in  the   Chicago   suburb   of  Prospect  Heights,  world
headquarters of Household International,  successor  to  the  CIA
proprietary  Nugan-Hand Bank, is also reportedly the nerve center
of a reputed  giant  joint  effort  of  the  American CIA and the
Vatican Bank and others. Among the purposes:
 
  -- to sniff out contraband worldwide and fingerprint  tainted
  funds.
  --  starting  in the 1970s and before, to siphon off billions
  of dollars from illicit  funds  and  use  that to subvert the
  Moscow government and disintegrate the Soviet Union, in  part
  through financial dirty tricks orchestrated worldwide.
  --  to  skim off billions of dollars from criminal monies and
  legal and illegal  properties,  to  finance  for the West the
  rise of Poland as a counter-measure against Russia.   In  all
  of which the Polish Pope plays a key part.
 
 
Because of the black operations' complexity, however, it often is
difficult  to determine who are the trackers and sniffers and who
are the smugglers and the laundry  crew; and who are skimming off
what.
 
Some background may be helpful:
 
During World War II, in the neutral site of Lisbon and elsewhere,
in 1943, was worked out a more or less secret  pact  between  the
Vatican and the West, some of the provisions being:
 
  (1)  That  the  Italians  considered  they  were  playing the
  principal role in the  development  of  the atomic bomb; that
  they more or less had made or could make  the  atomic  weapon
  through  their  wizard  Enrico Fermi, who was supplied to the
  Manhattan Project.  That  the  Italians, with the supervision
  of the Vatican, could use this capability against the  armies
  and  peoples  of  the  West  but that the Pope, in return for
  certain agreements with the West, ordered Fermi and others to
  assist the West  and  that  the  Italians  not use the atomic
  horror.  Fermi, in fact, wanted peaceful energy  use  of  the
  atomic  development,  not  warfare  usage.   Did Fermi die an
  early death because of his beliefs?
 
  (2) That the Vatican ordered  the  Italian Navy not to assist
  the German war effort.  The strength of the Italian Navy  has
  been  falsely  heckled  in U.S. and British war histories but
  correctly described  in  French  and  other  war histories as
  being potent.  The Pope, in fact,  ordered  sizeable  Italian
  warships  scuttled  or otherwise self-destroyed, so as not to
  be available to Hitler.
 
  (3) The Vatican would not interfere with efforts of the West,
  in finance and  geo-politics,  in  important  ways, for fifty
  years.  After which the power of the Vatican in world affairs
  would be more manifest.
 
 
No sooner was this Agreement  made  and  sealed,  than  the  U.S.
appeared  to  have  violated the same.  An OSS team had under its
control and custody the  Italian  gold  treasury, as well as gold
belonging to the Italian royal family as well as the Pope.   Some
of  the  Vatican  gold,  in  the  hands of the OSS, included gold
objects traceable to Jewish religious artifacts.
 
The OSS officer in charge of  the  team was murdered and the gold
disappeared, 1943-44.  An OSS officer, an  Italian-American  from
the Chicago area, was suspected of the great robbery and removal.
The  suspected  robber somehow escaped the scrutiny of five civil
and   military   tribunals   investigating   the   disappearance;
investigations conducted over  a  period  of  twelve years.  Team
members gave the details, over a period of twenty-five years,  to
an   investigative   journalist.    The   suspected  and  accused
perpetrator became a high official in Illinois.
 
The gold is now apparently buried  in the Chicago area and serves
as the best possible collateral for worldwide  bank  transactions
done  from  Chicago by branches of Italian and Sicilian banks set
up in the Windy City.  Included are the Banca Nazionale Delavoro,
Italy's largest bank, owned in  part  by the Vatican; the Chicago
branch of BNL.  Some of the gold has been used by the traditional
Mafia to bribe American judges and prosecutors.
 
The State of Israel, among others, have made their claims against
the gold horde, resulting in several related  legal  and  illegal
commotions  as  well  as  violence  and murders.  (As stated in a
previous report by  this  writer,  the political assassination of
Israel Prime Minister Itzhak Rabin was caused by  the  perception
that  he and other Israeli leaders would renege, somewhere in the
future,  on  the  deal to give land to the Palestinians -- a deal
sponsored by 50  Billion  Dollars,  in  front,  to  Israel by the
Vatican jointly with Western Bankers.  A month  after  the  Rabin
murder, General Ariel Sharon came to Chicago, 12/06/95, to try to
pacify the Western Bankers and the Church.)
 
Enlisted   in   the  previously  mentioned  clandestine  projects
reportedly are  also  Wells  Fargo,  Coca  Cola  Company, Salomon
Brothers, and a host of other Big Board international superstars,
supposedly greatly owned by Warren Buffet.  One of the largest if
not *the* largest stockholder of  Wells  Fargo  has  been  Warren
Buffet.   And  Wells Fargo, in turn, is one of the largest if not
*the* largest stockholder of Household International.
 
Various circumstances, however, tend  to raise doubts that Warren
Buffet's fortunes were made and exist as  he  publicly  trumpets.
Covert  espionage  funds and the skimmings from illicit transfers
may actually be  closer  to  the  reality  and  truth.  IS WARREN
BUFFET ANOTHER ROBERT MAXWELL?  An empire built on espionage  and
money laundering?
 
Ensnarled   in   state    and   federal   litigation,   Household
International has never repaired  its  broken  windows  resulting
from  a  twelve-year  running  court  battle with a west suburban
caulking  contractor,  Joseph  Andreuccetti,  who  has repeatedly
accused Household of espionage criminality, which Household  does
not  contest nor dispute, and to which Household silently invokes
"national security", while dodging numerous court rocks.
 
Andreuccetti contends  that  Vatican  Bank  chief Paul Marcinkus'
nephew/godson, Christian Henning,  Jr.,  falsely  claimed  to  be
Andreuccetti's   business  partner,  in  among  other  things,  a
sizeable  development,  apparently  linked  to  Italian  royalty,
called  Kingspoint  Condominiums,   in   west  suburban  Addison,
Illinois.  The  buildings  are  right  near  what  has  been  the
residence  of  a  man  of  trust  for  the Vatican, Henry Hyde, a
Congressman from that district.   At  the  same time, wearing two
hats, Hyde is also head of the CIA's "black budget".  Having more
actual power than the Director of Central Intelligence,  Hyde  is
violating  the  U.S.  Constitution's  mandate  of  separation  of
powers. 
 
Some  thirty  savings  and  loan  associations  in  the U.S. have
reportedly been used by CIA for covert operations.  Two dozen are
mentioned in the book, "The  Mafia,  the CIA, and George Bush" by
Pete Brewton.  The black operations, resulting in the sucking out
of millions and  millions  of  dollars,  apparently  led  to  the
collapse  of  those S&Ls. One not mentioned in the book was Clyde
Savings, in a Chicago west suburb.   For  a time Henry Hyde was a
director of Clyde.  The Resolution Trust Corporation  [RTC]  (now
shuttered),  the  S&L  bail-out machine, sued Hyde in the federal
court  in  Chicago,  claiming  his  activities  resulted  in  the
downfall of Clyde.  At the behest  of a CIA attorney, Judge Brian
Barnett Duff of Chicago ordered the principal records in the case
to be kept secret. Case No. 93 C 2477.
 
The real-life list of interwoven  players and events, relating to
the clandestine  projects  mentioned,  reads  like  a  spy  movie
script. A few high-lights of low-life happenings:
 
ITEM:   At  a crucial time in one federal court suit, the CEO and
financial wizard  of  Household  International dies mysteriously.
Was he murdered? Edwin Hoffman, April, 1993.
 
ITEM:  Becoming identified as the successor and alter ego of  the
infamous  Bank  of  Credit and Commerce International, reportedly
alive again as Pinnacle Banc  Group,  whose flagship now is First
National Bank of Cicero, long-dominated by Bishop Paul Marcinkus,
until 1991, head of the Vatican Bank; now  reportedly  living  in
Sun  City,  Arizona.   Reports persist that the Republic of Italy
wants Marcinkus back to drill  him with accusations of aiding the
traditional mafia to penetrate the Italian  establishment.   Left
out  and  unsaid:   Marcinkus'  services  to  the American CIA to
combat the Reds in Italy  while financing the Christian Democrats
as a bulwark against the Italian Communist Party.  To  all  this,
Marcinkus,  however,  invokes  --  even  in  the  U.S. -- Vatican
separate sovereignty.
 
ITEM:  A reportedly fraudulent loan by the First National Bank of
Cicero -- of which Andreuccetti never  got the proceeds -- is one
of the triggers, with the connivance  of  Marcinkus  et  al.,  to
start  this  international  odyssey,  now  going  into its second
decade in court.
 
ITEM:  A TV production, related  to  all  this, is stopped at gun
point by reputed mafia deputy sheriffs.  The  county  sheriff  is
long-accused  of  selling  deputy badges to the traditional mafia
whose U.S. headquarters is now  reportedly in DuPage County, just
west of Chicago.  Is it a coincidence that DuPage County, because
of the location of the Fermi nuclear laboratories and such, is on
the top of the list  of  national  security  locations?   Foreign
correspondents   need   special  State  Department  and  Pentagon
permission to go sniffing around DuPage County.
 
ITEM:   Without  statutory  and  other  authorization,  the Chief
Bankruptcy Judge in Chicago put himself in charge of all both the
federal and the state litigation related to these events.   Chief
Judge John D. Schwartz is subject to blackmail by the IRS and the
Justice  Department.   Schwartz reportedly has not filed a proper
tax return for  more  than  thirty  years.   He  has been himself
entangled with the financial affairs of First  National  Bank  of
Cicero,  Paul  Marcinkus,  and  others  related  to these events.
Schwartz has  been  a  director  of  the  First  National Bank of
Cicero.   Parked  for  Schwartz  offshore,  but   not   currently
available to him, is some 140 million dollars.
 
ITEM:  An official of the Internal Revenue Service in Chicago, in
the  Criminal  Investigation Division, in an undisputed admission
and confession has stated --
  -- that her bosses in IRS have stolen millions and millions
  of dollars of  properties  for  their own personal benefit,
  rightfully belonging to Joseph Andreuccetti; and made  land
  titles disappear to hide the same.
  -- that the IRS has  tried  to  cover  up the removal of 50
  million dollars of federal  funds,  parked  with  Household
  International and Household Bank, and transferred to Little
  Rock,  to  cover up the apparent embezzlement of 47 million
  dollars from an  S&L  in  Arkansas,  incriminating Bill and
  Hillary Clinton.
  -- that the IRS is well aware of the  corruption  of  Chief
  Judge Schwartz.
In  the record in the U.S. District Court in Chicago, case No. 92
C 7048.
 
ITEM:  An  official  of  the  U.S.  Bankruptcy  Court  in Chicago
purportedly bought for himself personally and in conjunction with
a known mafioso, Robert  Belavia,  Kingspoint  Condominiums.   In
December,  1991,  that  official, Wallace Lieberman, is murdered,
apparently by an FBI  agent,  Mike  "Chuckie" Peters.  Peters has
also been accused in the deaths and murders of  some  40  federal
grand jury witnesses in the INSLAW Affair involving theft of high
technology   and   super-duper  software  called  PROMIS  by  top
officials in the Reagan and the Bush administrations.
 
Lieberman was murdered just after  Paul Marcinkus returned to the
U.S. and just as the INSLAW federal grand jury investigation  got
going  under  former  Chicago  Federal District Judge Nicholas J.
Bua. Some contend Bua is the head of P-2's Grand Mother Lodge for
North America, headquartered in Chicago.  Propaganda Due [P-2] is
a secret Free Mason  group  whose  members include the top secret
police, legislators, judges, and journalists, of  Italy,  France,
England,  and  the U.S.; dedicated to the politics of tension, to
promote the overthrowing  of  representative  governments and the
revival of fascism, the iron fist.  Used  are  bombings,  terror,
and violence, falsely blamed in the press on left-wing activists.
Members have included George Bush and Alexander Haig.
 
Lieberman was to be a federal grand jury witness (if he lived) in
the  intricate  dealings  wherein the INSLAW super-duper software
PROMIS  was  secretly  given  or  sold  to  foreign  intelligence
services, including Sweden, Iraq,  and  Israel.  The software, as
modified, had a "trap door" so the  American  CIA  could  spy  on
various  other  intelligence  agencies,  both friends and enemies
alike.
 
After Lieberman's demise,  his  son  Barry  is  silenced by being
framed in an FBI "sting" operation, involving the sale to Israeli
intelligence of the highest level military electronics.   Wallace
Lieberman represented Israeli interests in various claims against
the Vatican Bank and Paul Marcinkus and Marcinkus' First National
Bank of Cicero.  Lieberman's body was found behind an auto repair
shop not far from the Cicero bank.
 
Pinnacle  Banc  Group,  First National Bank of Cicero, Marcinkus,
Household  International,  and  their  circle,  promoted  a state
legislator, from the Cicero and Berwyn suburbs west  of  Chicago,
Judy  Baar  Topinka,  to  become,  in  1994,  State  Treasurer of
Illinois.  She had  at  one  time  assisted  in publicity for the
Marcinkus' banking interests.  (She praised the  bank  in  Cicero
and Marcinkus, prior to her election, on a public access cable TV
show by this writer.)
 
Marcinkus'  return  to  the U.S. in 1991 was reportedly to assist
the American  CIA  and  Household,  in  the clandestine projects,
through the Vatican's interest in Household,  in  First  National
Bank  of  Cicero,  Pinnacle  Banc  Group, First Midwest Bank, and
other entities.
 
Some of these details from the records in the U.S. District Court
in Chicago:  Michael J.  Riconosciuto,  et  al., vs.  Nicholas J.
Bua, et al.,  Case  No.  92  C  6217  (civil);  U.S.  vs.   Barry
Lieberman,  Case  No.  92  CR  449  (criminal);  In  re.   Joseph
Andreuccetti,  No.  84 B 10338 (Bankruptcy Court).  Properties of
Andreuccetti,  purportedly  bought   by   Wallace  Lieberman  and
gangster Robert Belavia, disappeared into the personal  hands  of
top  IRS  officials  in  Chicago  and  were  not shown on Wallace
Lieberman's  Probate  Estate,   Circuit   Court  of  Cook  County
(Chicago), Case No. 92 P 1333,  Docket  988,  Page  638  (Probate
Division).
 
         -+- The Gangster-Espionage-Swindlers Overlap -+-
 
Starting in the late 1970s, Vincent W. Foster, Jr., purportedly a
partner in the Rose Law Firm, Little Rock, played a key espionage
role.   He  came  to  hold  the equivalent rank of general in the
super-duper code-cracking  intelligence  operation  known  as the
National Security Agency [NSA].   He  continued  that  role  even
after becoming, in 1993, Clinton White House deputy counsel.
 
Foster  functioned,  in  combination  with  law  partners Hillary
Rodham Clinton and  Webster  Hubbell,  as  head  of a bank spying
project, an offshoot of Household International,  alter  ego  and
successor to the CIA-linked Nugan-Hand Bank.  After the purported
collapse  of  Nugan-Hand Bank, in 1980, Household took over their
worldwide operations, California, Australia, Philippines, Pacific
Basin, Saudi, London, and Grand Caymans, among other places.
 
Among  their  functions,  transferring  covert  operations funds,
assassination team  funding,  skimming  of  dope,  gambling,  and
gun-running   loot;   military,  civilian,  international.   U.S.
Military,  Admirals  and   Generals,   as  well  as  intelligence
community officials, supposedly either "retired", or "on  leave",
operated  Nugan-Hand,  and  aided  thereafter  Household  and its
numerous units  and  subsidiaries.   Former  CIA Director William
Colby   was   overseer   of   both   Nugan-Hand   and   Household
International. 
 
The "tracking  the  money"  project  was  conducted  over-all  by
Household   International   with  the  assistance  reportedly  of
Systematics,  a  banking  computer  services  firm,  originally a
subsidiary of an Arkansas-based operation.   Targeted  have  been
the banks of both friends and enemies alike.  Foster and his crew
--  Hillary  and  Webster  --  used  as  a  cover  that they were
supposedly "attorneys" for Systematics.
 
Related  operations  included   some   thirty  savings  and  loan
associations  in  the  U.S.  taken  over  by  the  American  CIA,
including five  in  the  Chicago  area.   Among  those  was Clyde
Savings &  Loan,  a  director  of  which  has  been  Henry  Hyde,
long-time  Congressman  from  the Chicago area as well as head of
CIA's "black budget".  Hyde  has,  as  mentioned, more power than
the Director of Central Intelligence.
 
Clyde Savings transferred covert funds for CIA through other S&Ls
in Arkansas as well as securities  firms  in  Little  Rock,  some
apparently  alter  egos  for  the  Stephens  & Co. worldwide bond
brokerage.  Assisting was  the  dope  trafficker and bond broker,
Dan Lasater, who specialized in selling bonds  to  Illinois-based
S&Ls.  Lasater's dope-bond traffic resulted in the downfall of an
S&L in Oak Brook, a  Chicago  suburb  -- owned by Illinois former
Governor  Dan  Walker,  Sr.  The  attorneys  for   the   clean-up
thereafter?   Why,  of course, Vincent W. Foster, Jr. and Hillary
Rodham Clinton.  Clyde Savings  interfaced with CIA operations in
Arkansas, reportedly including Swink & Co.
 
Vincent and Hillary's role in this was arranged and supervised by
a Chicago-based law firm  Hopkins  &  Sutter,  during  the  early
1990s,   major  outside  counsel  for  the  S&L  bail-out  group,
Resolution Trust Corporation [RTC].  In fact, when RTC functioned
(now shuttered), their offices  --  amazingly  -- were inside the
private offices of Hopkins & Sutter, Chicago.  Walker, who  ended
up  in prison, has made few, if any, public statements about what
really happened.
 
And that law firm  interfaced  with the clandestine operations of
Household International:  for  many  years  a  Hopkins  &  Sutter
partner,  Jay  Steinberg,  sought to bottle up the details in the
record in the Andreuccetti litigation, by Steinberg purporting to
be straw boss and bankruptcy trustee in the same -- all to try to
keep under wraps the sort of details mentioned here.
 
Another  S&L-CIA  operation  reportedly  was  Silverado  S&L,  of
Denver.  Naturally, Hopkins & Sutter saw to it that George Bush's
son  escaped,  unharmed,  from  the  downfall  of  that espionage
operation.
 
A number of Texas Savings &  Loans  were  CIA  operations:   See:
Pete  Brewton's book, "The Mafia, the CIA, and George Bush".  How
to go about setting up an S&L swindle machine was actually taught
and orchestrated in  the  Chicago  area  in  the  north suburb of
Skokie.  The honchos that  ran  Skokie  Federal  Savings  &  Loan
taught   the   Texans   how   it   is  done.   As  shown  in  the
little-mentioned  case  of  the  federal  prosecution  of  a  top
official of Skokie Federal, U.S. vs.  John O'Connell, in the U.S.
District Court in Chicago,  Case  No.  95 CR 356 (criminal).  His
brother, Bill, was the head of the S&L lobbyist group,  preparing
for Congress what laws they are to pass.
 
             -+- Foster and the CIA's Gold Machine -+-
 
For NSA, Foster ran a bank in the Grand Caymans, a transfer point
for  gold  bullion  transactions, an American CIA specialty.  His
supervisor was John Tarullo,  once  a  member of the elite London
Gold Pool.  Tarullo had financial  links  to  the  Archbishop  of
Milan,  Italy  (apparently  a  cousin of his), the First National
Bank of  Cicero,  Skokie  Federal  S&L,  Household International;
Tarullo, in years past, worked projects for the American  CIA  in
with  Swiss  and  other bankers, and Tarullo was an informant for
FBI counter-intelligence (another apparent  relative having a key
role there).  Tarullo arranged secret gold bullion transfers  for
Nugan-Hand  Bank  and  their  alter  ego and successor, Household
International.  After being exposed  by  a public access cable TV
show by this writer, in August, 1995, Tarullo was murdered.   His
residence,  naturally,  was  a  short  distance  away  from First
National Bank of Cicero.
 
A follow-up to the  murder  of  Tarullo  was the scandal starting
late in the fall of 1995, the Roger  D'Onofrio  affair.   He  has
been  a top CIA officer, with dual residence in both the U.S. and
Italy, living near  Naples.   Italian  authorities  put him under
house arrest, charging him with arranging, for the  CIA  and  the
traditional  mafia,  to  launder  and  transfer funds through the
Vatican Bank; including  clandestine  gold, dope and gun-running,
and selling nuclear bomb triggers to sworn enemies  of  the  U.S.
Also   accused  was  the  Archbishop  of  Barcelona,  who  denies
involvement.   (Stories  by  Reuters,  Naples,  Italy,  12/02/95;
Naples,  Italy,  Associated  Press,  12/02/95.)   D'Onofrio  [is]
reportedly  implicated with Marcinkus, and Vatican involvement in
the murder of Israel  Prime  Minister  Itzhak Rabin, and "October
Surprise".
 
     -+- Revelations of a Portion of Clandestine Projects -+-
 
A reputed government counter-intelligence  agent  has  apparently
come  to  play  a key role in a so-called new "radical" magazine,
called  Media  Bypass   Magazine,  headquartered  in  Evansville,
Indiana.   Supposedly  the  idea  for  the  publication,  as   an
alternative  to the mainstream press, was by Jim Thomas.  Earlier
in his career he  had  extremely  high  security clearance in his
position  in  the  military,  involving   super-secret   military
electronics, satellite control, and hush-hush communications.  On
the  day of the Oklahoma bombings, April 19, 1995, Thomas hired a
person using the name  Lawrence  W.  Myers (is that person really
linked to that name? Is his background what he says it is?)
 
Myers apparently has been a counter-terrorism  expert  previously
with  Wackenhut.   To  avoid  a torrent of Freedom of Information
requests and suits, the American CIA has transferred a portion of
their covert  activities  to  Wackenhut.   (For  example, see Spy
Magazine, 9/92.)   Wackenhut  guards  secret  nuclear  production
facilities,  the highly secret base in Nevada called Area 51, and
does  research  and  development  on  secret  weapons  and covert
projects.
 
Since Wackenhut purports to be a private firm,  they  are  immune
from  Freedom  of  Information requests and suits.  Myers, in the
view of some,  has  penetrated  Media  Bypass  to  see to it that
stories about the Oklahoma bombings are not too revealing  as  to
U.S.   government   complicity.    Some   believe  from  all  the
circumstances that Myers continues  as a reported U.S. government
counter-intelligence operative at the same time he  became  chief
investigative  reporter for Media Bypass.  Myers' activities,  to
apparently  compile  intelligence   and  counter-intelligence  on
dissident groups -- militias,  state  sovereignty  movement,  tax
protesters  -  is  reportedly  a  small  portion  of  the overall
projects.
 
Myers seems quite acceptable  to the mainstream press, describing
him as an intelligence and security expert.  (PBS Network's  "Jim
Lehrer News Hour", 06/04/96, had him on a panel in a segment.)
 
               -+- Whitewashing and Cover-Up -+-
 
The so-called Whitewater  Independent  Counsel, Kenneth Starr, is
well aware of the mysterious 50 million dollar transfer, to cover
up embezzlement of an Arkansas S&L implicating Bill  and  Hillary
Clinton.  Congressman Dan Burton (R., Ind.) says he has documents
of  a  50  million  dollar  transfer.   Reportedly  involved is a
reputed mafia-CIA  proprietary,  Coral  Re-Insurance, a Caribbean
firm.  The mysterious 50 million dollars crops up in  respect  to
dope traffic through the airport at Mena, Arkansas.
 
Household  International,  instrumental in the transfer, has been
in a position to cover up.   A  top official of theirs became the
chief investigator of  S&Ls  in  Illinois  for  Resolution  Trust
Corporation,  Don  Stoll.   (Household's  units, called Household
Bank, are actually savings  &  loans.)   Other units of Household
are in the insurance business, apparently  having  some  link  to
Coral  Re-Insurance.   (Cong.   Burton,  Cong.   Record, 5/29/96,
H5627-28)
 
Although knowing  all  this,  Starr  so  far  is  not proceeding,
because  of  the  G.O.P.-Democrat   overlap   in   the   criminal
enterprises involved.
 
In  January, 1994, Joseph Andreuccetti's former attorney, John E.
Gierum, of Park Ridge,  Illinois,  a Chicago suburb, confessed to
this writer, in the presence of his former client:
  1.  That he is closely associated  with  Hillary's  family,
  originally from Park Ridge, the Rodhams.
  2.   That the Clinton White House is trying to frame him on
  the mysterious  50  million  dollar  transfer  in  which he
  played a key role by supervising the federal  funds  parked
  with Household Bank.
  3.   That the matter is so stacked against him that he does
  not believe he can successfully defend himself, despite the
  fact that he is a skilled attorney.  (In Park Ridge, he has
  had an office inside the law offices of Di Monte, Schostok,
  & Lizak, reportedly  into  matters of international banking
  and espionage and acting as a buffer, fixer, and go-between
  for  other  law  firms  and  reputed  covert   intelligence
  operations.)
 
Gierum  has  been  Senior  Litigation Attorney for the U.S. Small
Business  Administration.    SBA   corruption  is  instrumentally
involved in the Whitewater Affair.
 
When the Gierum confession came up as a  matter  in  the  federal
court,  Gierum did not dispute the same.  He later tried to evade
the matter *outside* *of* *court* by stating it was merely a joke
he told Skolnick.  (Gierum was  almost in tears when he confessed
to this writer and his former client Andreuccetti.)
 
Very well informed on these matters of the 50 million dollars and
related events was Jon  Parnell  Walker,  a  senior  investigator
specialist  for  RTC.   He  was  silenced  by  being thrown off a
building in  Virginia.   Friends  and  family  deny  he committed
"suicide", the official government story.
 
 + Those Who Would Be Fingered By Widespread Publicity of These Details +
 
WARREN BUFFET, and his reputed empire,  WELLS  FARGO,  COCA-COLA,
SALOMON  BROTHERS, using their facilities reportedly, in part for
espionage and money laundering.   Warren  Buffet and ABC News and
Wells Fargo and the CIA-REWALD scandal (which was a CIA operation
out of Hawaii.)
 
HOUSEHOLD INTERNATIONAL, and its predecessor, NUGAN-HAND BANK.
 
Motives behind the apparent political assassination of former CIA
Director William Colby.
 
PINNACLE BANC GROUP, FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK  OF  CICERO,  and  the
VATICAN  BANK,  reportedly  tied  to  the ROGER D'ONOFRIO Affair,
laundering of illicit funds for CIA and the traditional mafia and
selling  radioactive  material  for  nuclear  devices,  including
OSMIUM, to  sworn  enemies  of  the  U.S.  (Rome, Italy, 12/2/95,
United Press International) (Osmium used in nuclear detonators)
 
The political assassination of White House Deputy Counsel VINCENT
W. FOSTER, JR., tied  to  the  bank  spying  scandal,  reportedly
implicating   the   National  Security  Agency  and  its  reputed
proprietary, SYSTEMATICS.
 
The apparent ties  between  the  Mena  Airport dope smuggling and
GARFIELD RIDGE TRUST & SAVINGS BANK (CHICAGO) owned by  defrocked
former  Chicago  Congressman  Dan Rostenkowski and Hillary Rodham
Clinton's brother.
 
Washing the Mena dope  loot  from  Garfield Ridge Trust & Savings
Bank through the CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE.
 
Newer version of the CIA  and  FBI's  dirty  tricks  against  the
current   dissidents:    COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE   Operations,  more
violent and bloody than those  used  against the Peaceniks of the
1960s and 1970s.
 
Congressman Henry Hyde, head of CIA "black budget", implicated in
OPERATION PEGASUS, teams used to assassinate foreign leaders  and
plots  to  murder  domestic  celebrities,  including  Ross Perot.
(Statement of former team member "Chip" Tatum, 6/96.)
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
Mr. Skolnick  is  founder/chairman,  since  1963,  of  the public
interest reform  group,  Citizens'  Committee  to  Clean  Up  the
Courts,   investigating  and  researching  judicial  bribery  and
political murders.  Since 1971, he  has been editor of a 5-minute
recorded  phone  commentary,  HOTLINE  NEWS,  (312)  731-1100,  a
regular phone call, on 24 hours per day,  changed  several  times
per  week.   Since  1991, he has been a regular panelist, now the
moderator, of a  weekly  public  access  one-hour  Cable TV Show,
"Broadsides", available to some 400,000 households.  His comments
appear on several news groups on Internet and on the  World  Wide
Web.  Office,  8  a.m. to midnight, 7 days/week:  (312) 375-5741.
Call before  sending  fax.   9800  S.  Oglesby  Ave., Chicago, IL
60617-4870.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
I neither necessarily agree  nor  disagree  with  either  all  or
portions of the preceding.  Persons mentioned are invited to send
their  rebuttals,  of  reasonable length, to bigred@shout.net for
probable distribution.
                         -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

