
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 9  Num. 27
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
SCALAR E/M WEAPON DOWNS TWA 800?
================================
 
From orbitx@ois.com.auThu Sep 26 11:52:21 1996
Date: Thu, 26 Sep 1996 13:01:56 +0800
From: Harry Mason <orbitx@ois.com.au>
To: "'bigred@duracef.shout.net'" <bigred@duracef.shout.net>
Subject: Scalar E/M weapon downs TWA 800 ???
 
Dear Brian Redman,
 
I received today a copy of  your  25 Sept 1996 mail to Conspiracy
Nation re NTT Nord Davis letter to Larry King Show.  I would like
to talk to both Nord Davis and Evan of Larry King show - but need
telephone numbers ???  [CN:  If anybody has  the  phone  numbers,
please  send  to  Harry  Mason  at orbitx@ois.com.au and to me at
bigred@shout.net]
 
I'm visiting USA in late October and would like to meet  up  with
anyone researching Scalar E/M weapons ???
 
Attached  e-mail was sent by me to several newspapers and FBI TWA
Crash Investigation team soon  after  downing  of TWA 800.  Never
received any replies - they probably think I'm crazy !!!
 
 
 
----------
From:   Harry Mason[SMTP:orbitx@ois.com.au]
Sent:   Tuesday, July 30, 1996 11:58 PM
To:     'NewsABC@aol.com'
Subject:        TWA FLIGHT 800
 
Dear ABC NEWS,
 
I thought that you might like my  views on the crash of TWA 800 -
see below.........
 
I have been trying to interview  Commander Meyer of the 106th Air
National Guard but have been informed  by  their  Public  Affairs
Major Finkle that this is currently not allowed due to insistence
of  FBI - see his e-mail below.  I find this attitude amazing but
at least its better than the  one prevalent after the shooting of
JFK when witnesses were just shot.......
 
I wish to  pass  to  you  some  info  of  possible  interest  and
significance to the crash of TWA Flight 800.
 
My address is :-
 
Harry Mason
e-mail =  orbitx@ois.com.au
 
snail  mail  =  1313,  Armstrong  Rd., Jarrahdale, Perth, Western
Australia 6203
 
Tel:  +61-9-525-5999    Fax:  +61-9-525-5944    
 
 
COMMENTS RE TWA FLIGHT 800
 
I am  a  geologist-geophysicist  (scientist)  working  in mineral
exploration in Perth, Western Australia.  I may have data of  use
in the investigation into the TWA 800 crash.
 
As a private research project I have been investigating a  series
of  strange  aerial  light  energy events that have been reported
from various  areas  of  Western  Australia  (and  other areas of
Australia) over the past few  years,  but  seen  with  increasing
frequency   over   the   last   three   months   of   this   year
(May-July,1996).
 
These  light  events  involve  either  static  or moving beams of
orange-red light energy (usually vertical  and hanging in the sky
but sometimes horizontal  or  at  45degress),  moving  orange-red
light  energy  spheres or fire balls (traveling at speeds roughly
equivalent to high speed jet aircraft (+500 - 2000 mph)- observed
traveling over distances of hundreds of kilometers), massive high
energy  ripple  light  flashes  lasting  3-5  seconds  of intense
blue-white  colour  (seen  at  altitude  or  at   ground   level)
descriptions  such  as  "someone with a giant arc welder", and an
assortment of green, intense blue,  white, and red lights varying
in size from large as the moon to mostly very small.
 
These light energy events have been  reported  by  many  reliable
bush observers such as geologists, pilots, air passengers, meteor
astronomers,   prospectors,  cattle  and  sheep  station  (ranch)
owners, truck drivers,  aboriginal  peoples,  tourists etc.  Such
events were rarely if ever reported prior to about 1989  and  are
not  generally  due  to  meteors, meteor fireballs, etc.  (due to
nature  of  expert  eyewitness  evidence),  nor  are thunderstorm
lightning emissions ever  present,  and  they  do  not  generally
appear  to  be of a natural origin (due to several considerations
re evidence).  They definitely involve electro-magnetic potential
field transmissions  as  they  have  in  certain instances caused
mains power outages,  electrical  streamers  issuing  from  house
power  boxes,  diesel  generator  winding  burn out, HF and other
frequency  radio  interference,  and  micro-wave  telephonic link
interference of a peculiar style.
 
The moving red-orange lights have sometimes  resulted  in  either
massive   aerial   explosions  or  ground  based  explosions  and
earthquakes.  In some  cases  they  follow  aircraft - keeping in
formation.  Static orange beams  have  been  observed  above  the
naval  military base at Fremantle, and in isolated outback areas.
Many aspects of witness evidence places these events far from the
"Natural Scenario" and into  the  exotic  man - made arena.  Most
such events are seen  in  very  isolated  outback  areas,  but  a
significant percentage occur over population centers.
 
e.g. on 28-05-93 one such orange-red light flew over observers in
the  northeastern  Goldfields  region  of W.A., "hit" the ground,
caused a 3.9 Richter earthquake,  a massive explosion (heard over
an area some 200km x 100km), and was followed by the  rise  above
the  ground  of  a  very  large  hemisphere of very bright opaque
red-orange light (equivalent in  size to two-three setting moons)
with a silver lining that hovered up there for  about  two  hours
"bobbing  about  a bit" - before turning off "as if someone threw
the light switch".   Good  eyewitness  cross  fixes on this event
allowed excellent  ground  and  air  search  but  no  craters  or
anomalous   ground  disturbance  of  any  kind  could  be  found.
Although at first this incident  resembled a fireball meteor many
aspects of eyewitness evidence and other considerations  indicate
that  it  was  not  a  meteor and was most probably a high energy
electrical event of a peculiar type.  We originally believed that
this event was caused by the  detonation of a small one kilotonne
nuclear weapon, but after much ground and  airborne  research  on
site  and  with  consideration  of  other  similar events now are
certain that this was the test of an exotic scalar E/M weapon.
 
Another event at 2.00am. on the 1st. of May 1995 consisted  of  a
bright  red-orange  ball  that  traveled from south of Perth to a
point above the eastern part of the city where it exploded with a
force estimated as several  megatonnes  at an altitude of several
km.  - waking up half of  the  city.   Eyewitnesses  reported  an
enormous  burst  of blue-white light energy and buildings and the
ground shook.  Although classified  by  some as a meteor fireball
several aspects of this case suggest otherwise and indicate  that
it was an Electromagnetic event.
  
Many of the  other  events  have  been  classified as "off planet
alien UFO" sightings however detailed analysis suggests that  the
aliens  are  a  lot  closer to home and that there are rarely any
solid objects involved -  only  massive light energy discharges -
probably offshoots of electromagnetic  energy  transmissions  and
associated electrical potential effects.
 
The  possible  relevance  of  my  research   to   the   TWA   800
investigation will be explained later in the body of this e-mail,
but  first  I  wish  to  review  the  data that I have from press
reports here in Western Australia about the TWA 800 crash event.
 
 
 
News reports here state  that  (W.A.  = Sunday Times Newspaper of
21-7-96):-
 
 
NEW YORK: 
 
A US military official said yesterday he saw a  flash  of  light,
similar to a shooting star, cross the planes path when TWA Flight
800 jet crashed.
 
The  pilot  was  on helicopter patrol on Wednesday night when the
jumbo jet exploded.
 
"I know the strike of a  missile.   What I saw didn't look at all
like a missile," said Commander Fritz Meyer of the  106th  Rescue
Wing of the New York Air National Guard.
 
"Our  three man crew saw the same thing.  A flash of red - orange
light, characteristic of a shooting star", he said.
 
"Then we saw a small explosion  followed by a large explosion and
a ball of fire fell into the sea".
 
END
 
 
Other Internet data says that "the Pentagon  denied  initial  Dan
Rather  CBS  News  reports  of a radar sighting of an object that
circled the Jumbo Jet twice, and  said  there was no object - but
we  did  get  a  static electronic noise type glitch on the radar
system that was  time  co-incident  with the explosion/downing of
the jet airliner".
 
 
 
 
Thus I believe on the press  reports above that your Air National
Guard  eyewitness  reports  of  an  orange-red  flash  of   light
CHARACTERISTIC  of  - i.e.. similar to - a shooting star, and the
reported radar static glitch detected on civilian/military  radar
screens  MAY  indicate a similarity to the events being witnessed
here in Australia ???
 
That  is an orange-red light beam or ball looking like a shooting
star or meteor AND evidence of an E/M connection ???
 
I have been engaged in  this  research  for  about one and a half
years.   Discussion  with  many  scientists   and   investigative
reporters in Japan, Australia, USA, Russia, and the UK has led me
to the deduction that these Australian events involve the testing
of  an  exotic  new  electro-magnetic  weapon of truly prodigious
power.  I can  support  this  and  other  statements made in this
summary e-mail with backup data and papers etc.
 
The remote Australian "outback" appears to be being used for  the
training of crews in the deployment and operation of this weapons
system.   We believe that this weapon employs "post - Einsteinian
Relativistic  Physics"  principles   linked  to  developments  of
Tesla's wireless energy transmission  theories  and  may  involve
transmission  beams of very high energies in the microwave and or
elf/vlf frequency band.  It's deployment  can be global in that a
transmitter can destroy targets at the planetary antipodes, or it
can be transmitted from a ship, plane ?, or satellite  nearer  to
the target.
 
At this time we have no evidence that the Tx source of our exotic
events  is  in  Australia  and  believe that in fact these energy
transmissions originate some distance from our shores.
 
Although no planes have been shot down here in Australia, one USA
scientist (Tom Bearden)  believes  he  has  evidence that one was
shot down in Canada a few years ago by this type  of  weapon.   I
can put you in touch with him if you desire same.
 
These  weapons  apparently  have  several  variants and can cause
enormous nuclear  blast  type  explosions  (minus radioactivity),
actually create major earthquakes, vaporize  solid  objects,  hit
aircraft  (to  totally  destroy - or just turn off the engines by
destroying the jet flame energy), destroy electronics systems, or
terminate all life in the  target  area, or create or warp storms
or weather fronts onto target  areas.   Apparently  human  bodies
exposed  to this type of energy blast decay much more slowly than
normal - as if irradiated by Cobalt 60.
 
These weapons were initially developed and brought on line by the
Russians under the control of  the  KGB  (army and navy units) in
about 1963.  Subsequently I believe that  the  Israelis  and  the
French  ? developed the same principles.  Apparently the USA does
not have same yet ???  - but is busy trying to develop same e.g..
the Alaskan HAARP project.
 
Three months ago the Russians  broadcast a Radio Moscow programme
admitting existence and deployment of these  scalar  E/M  weapons
(they call them "Torsion Field Energetics") and boasting of their
huge  lead  over  the  rest  of  the world.  This was also stated
recently by  "extreme  right  wing  !!!   -  KGB  controlled ???"
Russian Presidential candidate Zherinovsky (Sp ?)  in  a  BBC  TV
documentary  about him.  He claimed that the KGB controlled these
weapons (termed "Elipton  Bomb")  and  that  Russia had a massive
military  advantage  due  to  their  existence,  deployment,  and
systems development lead.  Evidence amassed by  researchers  here
and  in  the USA points to the Soviets having a predisposition to
"showing off" their weapons around the  planet on the 1st. of May
- especially large displays are seen at five yearly intervals.
 
Russian physics academician sources have indicated via a  British
engineer to me that these weapons exist and they are very worried
about  the KGB control and antics with these weapons systems, and
their possible proliferation to TERRORIST States, and/or use by a
world wide "One World Government" cabal control group ........
 
An American scientific colleague is worried (based on information
received) that  Iran,  Iraq,  Syria,  and  definitely  Libya have
coaxed Soviet scientists with knowledge of these E/M  systems  to
work for them to develop same.
 
I  have  information  that  suggests the Soviets (one Lobov = KGB
security chief) received  huge  payments  ($900 million) from the
Japanese AUM sect (of Tokyo Subway  gas  fame)  to  provide  this
technology  to  elements  of  the  right  wing  Yakkuza dominated
Japanese power structure with apparent links to North Korea.
 
See also       http://www.pelago.com
 
The AUM Sect set up  with  Soviet assistance a joint Soviet-Japan
University in Moscow where the brightest young nuclear physicists
of Japan and Russia concentrated upon developing modern  variants
of  the  Russian  E/M  weapons  by  addition  of  modern Japanese
computing power and  electronics  etc.,  and  in developing other
exotic weapons of mass destruction.
 
Although  we  cannot  be  certain  we  believe  that  the  exotic
red-orange light energy and other events  seen  around  Australia
relate  initially  (1) to KGB demonstrations to the AUM and their
Japanese  paymasters  (e.g..   28-05-93  the  orange-red  sphere,
ground explosion, earthquake, 2  hour  red hemisphere occurred in
the northeastern Goldfields area of WA on the same day that a  10
ship  naval  carrier  task force of USN and RAN vessels docked in
Fremantle harbour - this was  probably a demonstration by the KGB
to their Japanese clients that the E/M  weapons  tech  works  and
that  the naval task force could have been destroyed at the flick
of a switch)  and  (2)  since  1994/5  to  weapons testing by the
Japanese group itself - possibly from a secret base in Taiwan  or
on a Japanese Island in the archipelago just east of there.
 
However  it  could  equally  well  be  Russia or any of the above
mentioned nations utilizing us as a weapons testing range.  Exact
data  on  this  very   top   secret  scenario  is  difficult  and
potentially dangerous to come by.
 
Space does not allow me here to discuss and  outline  all  of  my
data/information  on  this  subject  of  E/M weapons.  Should you
desire more info I  shall  be  happy  to  speak with you by phone
etc., or put you into communication  with  my  contacts  in  this
bizarre international research topic etc.
 
My  purpose  in  this  e-mail is to alert you to the fact that an
exotic E/M weapon type  exists  and  that the news reports quoted
above suggest a POSSIBILITY that same was used to shoot down  TWA
800.
 
The  very nature of these weapons systems is that they can APPEAR
to be  natural  events  e.g.  meteors  or  "shooting stars"/radar
electronic static, earthquakes, shorted out circuit  boards  etc.
and  can  therefore  be missed by investigators operating without
the  knowledge  and  viewpoint  required  to  recognise  same  as
relevant.
 
There are however subtle differences  that  I am now a little bit
of an expert in !!!
 
The  apparent  reluctance  of  the Black Box recorder to emit its
beeper noises for instance  and  hence remaining undetected ?  IF
we are dealing with  a  E/M  weapon  strike  then  all  on  board
electrical systems (including the Black Box) - no matter how well
shielded in Faraday Cages or equivalent - will most probably have
been  junked at the time of E/M "field" impact, and hence will no
longer be in working order.
 
I should therefore very  much  like  to interview Commander Fritz
Meyer of the 106th Rescue Wing New York Air Guard and  his  crew,
and  be able to see the best radar tapes of the event, and review
the total eyewitness reports, and  any  other crash debris data -
in order to see if the E/M weapon theory fits the bill.......
 
It is of  course  quite  possible  that  the  reported  flash  of
orange-red  light  was  indeed  a  "shooting  star"  and  that it
impacted at say 25,000 - 30,000 mph with the 747 thus causing the
accident.  The eyewitness data should  help decide which of these
scenarios fits best.
 
Or perhaps some type of  missile  was involved - however the lack
of a contrail report to date, the incredibly lucky shot necessary
for a small warhead and a small missile at extreme range tend  to
mitigate against this scenario.
 
The  similarities  to  the  PANAM  Lockerbie  incident  are  also
disturbing and obviously a bomb on board is a candidate - but how
do  we  reconcile  the Air National Guard report of an orange red
flash of light followed  by  two  explosions with an onboard bomb
???
 
Only careful examination of all the eyewitness evidence and other
factual data in minute detail will resolve the issue - especially
for public confidence, and for peace of mind of the relatives and
friends of the dead.  We do not need another "Lee Harvey  Oswald"
type of outcome.
 
I am only too aware of the  exotic nature of my statements re E/M
weapons.  My only intention here is to help elucidate  the  facts
of this terrible event which unfortunately looks too much like an
act of war.
 
 
 
Should  it  be found to be a terrorist or other criminal man-made
event I hope that you -  the  USA  - nail the bastard(s) good and
proper.
 
Here in Western Australia we have a very large (+one  inch  long)
meat  eating  ant  = "Bull Ant".  When pegged out over their nest
with honey applied  to  the  softer  body  parts  a very slow and
extremely painful death is assured.................but I  suspect
that  even  that  is too good an ending for the type of sub-human
involved with causing such a huge loss of innocent life.
 
 
regards,
 
 
Harry Mason
  
21-07-96
 
----------
From:   James Finkle[SMTP:jfinkle@lihti.org]
Sent:   Tuesday, July 30, 1996 9:05 PM
To:     orbitx@ois.com.au
Subject:  Request for Interview  with  Commander Fritz Meyer (New
York National Air Guard)
 
Sir,
 
I just received your facsimile and I'm  afraid  that  I  will  be
unable to permit an interview at this time.  The FBI has directed
that  all  interviews  cease under they are able to determine the
cause of the accident.
 
I will forward your fax to  the  FBI  in the event that they want
your assistance.
 
Thank you for your cooperation.
 
 
jf
 
James J. Finkle, Major, NYANG
Director of Public Affairs
106th Rescue Wing
(516)444-8800
Pager (516)584-1084
email jfinkle@lihti.org
 
              "These things we do that others may live."
 
 
Regards,
 
Harry Mason (PS.  Please could you provide phone numbers for Nord
Davis, Larry King (Evan) and yourself - I am  leaving  Perth  for
Europe on 1st October ).  [CN:  Anyone knowing the phone numbers,
please  send  to  me  at  bigred@shout.net  and to Harry Mason at
orbitx@ois.com.au]
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

