
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 9  Num. 44
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
SHERMAN H. SKOLNICK vs. HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON
==============================================
Document "A" [Received by U.S. District Court July 18, 1996]
------------------------------------------------------------
[Case 96C 4373]
 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS
EASTERN DIVISION
 
SHERMAN H. SKOLNICK and JOSEPH ANDREUCCETTI,
                 Plaintiffs, )
 
        vs.   
 
        HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON; AMY ZISOOK; MARK ZISOOK;
        H.C. VALENT;.JOHN E. GIERUM; GERALD H.
        PARSHALL, Jr.; ROBERT ALEXOVICH; and ten JOHN
        DOES and JANE ROES (whose identity is not now
        known to plaintiffs),
        Defendants.     )
 
 
VERIFIED COMPLAINT.
Sherman H. Skolnick and Joseph Andreuccetti, plaintiffs, complain
against the defendants Hillary  Rodham  Clinton, Amy Zisook, Mark
Zisook, H.C. Valent, John E. Gierum,  Gerald  H.  Parshall,  Jr.,
Robert Alexovich, and ten John Does and Jane Roes (whose identity
is not now known to plaintiffs), and allege as follows:
 
Count One.
Sherman H. Skolnick and Joseph Andreuccetti plaintiffs, complaint
against  the  defendants Hillary Rodham Clinton, Amy Zisook, Mark
Zisook, H.C. Valent,  John  E.  Gierum,  Gerald H. Parshall, Jr.,
Robert Alexovich, and ten John Does and Jane Roes (whose identity
is not now known to the plaintiffs) and allege as follows:
 
1.  Jurisdiction and venue  is  hereby  invoked  pursuant  to  28
U.S.C.A.  $  1331, and the First, Fourth, and Fifth Amendments of
the U.S. Constitution and  case  law precedents pursuant thereto,
including but not limited to Bivens vs.  Six Unknown Agents,  403
U.S.  388  (1971),  as to some of the aforesaid defendants acting
under the sham  and  pretense  of  federal authority, but without
actual authority for the acts and doings  hereinafter  complained
of.
 
2.  That the matter in  controvery for each defendant exceeds the
jurisdictional minimum exclusive of interest and costs.
 
3.  That plaintiff Sherman H. Skolnick is a citizen of the United
States  and  a  resident  of  the  Northern District of Illinois,
Eastern Division.
 
4.  That plaintiff Joseph Andreuccetti is a citizen of the United
States and  a  resident  of  the  Northern  District of Illinois,
Eastern Division.
 
5.  Most every  act  and  doings  done by defendants, hereinafter
complained of by plaintiffs, was done in the Northern District of
Illinois, Eastern Division.
 
6.  That some of the defendants acted under the sham and pretense
of federal authority but without actual authority to do the  acts
and doings hereinafter complained of by plaintiffs.
 
7.  A trial by jury is hereby demanded pursuant to provisions  of
law,  including  but  not limited to F.R.C.P. Rule 38(b) and Rule
57.
 
8.  Since 1958, plaintiff  Skolnick  is  a crusader against court
corruption and political murders and seeks as a remedy  to  bring
to  public  attention  certain  instances  of  judicial and other
bribery and political murders.   Since 1971, plaintiff Skolnick's
public disclosures have been on a recorded  phone  commentary,  a
regular  phone  number,  heard  by a large number of callers each
week.   Since  1991,  plaintiff   Skolnick  has  been  a  regular
panelist, now moderator and producer, of a public access cable TV
show,  called  "Broadsides",  cablecast  each  week  to  a  large
viewership in Chicago and in some suburbs.  Since 1994, plaintiff
Skolnick's comments on judicial corruption and political  murders
have appeared on Internet, on various alternative news groups and
are now archived and presented on various Websites.
 
9.    In   these  capacities  of  plaintiff  Skolnick,  plaintiff
Andreuccetti contacted  plaintiff  Skolnick  in  1991, and sought
help and public exposure in long-pending  injustices  perpetrated
in  and  out  of  state  and  federal  courts  against  plaintiff
Andreuccetti.
 
10.   That  defendants,  each of them, individually, and jointly,
severally, and in  concert  with  each  other and other persons,
have been part of a scheme as follows:
 
(a) to obstruct the due  course  of justice as to plaintiffs, and
to damage plaintiffs in their persons,  properties,  and  federal
constitutionally protected rights, privileges, and immunities, as
hereinafter more fully set forth;
 
(b)  to  obstruct  public  disclosure  and disclosure in official
tribunals, by plaintiffs, of  the  secret details of the unlawful
transfer of a 50 million dollar portion of 58.4  million  dollars
of  funds  of  the  Federal  Home  Loan  Bank, parked and held in
custody, and supposed to be so, with Household Bank and Household
International in the Chicago  area,  and  supposed  to be held to
make good the claims of plaintiff Andreuccetti.
 
(c) the  use  of  said  50  million  dollar  unlawful transfer by
defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton  was  to  cover  up  47  million
dollars  that was misappropriated and embezzled, and/or otherwise
unlawfully encumbered, used, or  removed from an Arkansas savings
and  loan,  Madison  Guaranty  Savings  and  Loan,  as  to  which
defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton  and  her  husband,   William
Jefferson  Clinton,  committed  or  caused  to  be committed, and
allowed, permitted, and  condoned,  and  acquiesced  in, acts and
doings punishable under provisions of the federal criminal  code.
Part  of the scheme included for defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton
to proceed to have acts  and  doings done against the plaintiffs,
with said defendant pretending to have  federal  authority;  that
although  said  defendant  occupies an office in the White House,
she has no actual federal authority but was part of the scheme to
pretend she did.
 
11.  That in January, 1994, plaintiff Skolnick was sitting in his
wheelchair in the hallway of one of the floors of the site of the
federal courts in Chicago,  the  Dirksen  Federal  Building,  219
South  Dearborn St., Chicago, IL 60604.  Defendant John E. Gierum
came  up  to  plaintiff  Skolnick  and  insisted  on  talking  to
plaintiff  about  certain   matters   that  were  bothering  said
defendant.  At the time, the defendant  appeared  highly  rattled
and agitated.  In a few moments, plaintiff Skolnick and defendant
Gierum  were joined by plaintiff Andreuccetti who was coming from
parking his vehicle.
 
Defendant Gierum told plaintiffs that he was closely aligned with
defendant Hillary Rodham  Clinton,  being  from  the same Chicago
suburb of Park Ridge as the Rodham family and having gone to  law
school with her brother.  Defendant Gierum, pointing to plaintiff
Skolnick, said to plaintiffs, "If you are correct, as you seem to
be,  what  have  I been doing the last ten years?", meaning to be
understood  by  defendant  Gierum   and   was  so  understood  by
plaintiffs, that defendant Gierum was then and  there  confirming
that plaintiffs are correct about the very high level corruption,
obstruction of justice as to plaintiffs, is true and correct, and
that  Gierum  knows  about  the  unlawful  matters  as herein and
hereinafter set forth and  that  Gierum  has gone along with such
corruption and is a part of the same.
 
12.  Thereafter, on the same day in January, 1994, the discussion
between plaintiffs and defendant Gierum resumed outside the  Park
Ridge  law  offices of defendant Gierum.  Said defendant came out
of  his  office  and   sat   in   the  front  seat  of  plaintiff
Andreuccetti's  vehicle;  Gierum  sat  next   to   Skolnick   and
Andreuccetti  sat  right  behind  them.  Then and there defendant
Gierum admitted  and  confessed,  as  follows,  including but not
limited to:
 
(a) that defendant Hillary  Rodham  Clinton and the Clinton White
House are trying to frame Gierum and send him to prison by way of
blaming Gierum for the unlawful transfer of the said  50  million
dollars, as hereinbefore described.
 
(b)  That because of very high level corruption, defendant Gierum
would not be able to defend  himself, irrespective of the law and
the facts  that  might  otherwise  protect  him  or  support  his
position.
 
(c) Whereupon,  plaintiff  Skolnick  said  to  defendant  Gierum,
"John,  you seem to be a skilled attorney; you can beat the rap."
Defendant Gierum responded, "No,  I  can't.  It's fixed.  I'll no
doubt be calling you from a faraway jail."  Whereupon,  defendant
Gierum  had  tears  in  his eyes as he began talking of his young
child that depends on him and  that  in jail he would not be able
to take care of that child.  "They'll frame  their  own  mother",
defendant  Gierum  said  in  anguish,  meaning  defendant Hillary
Rodham Clinton and her husband.   That despite his admissions and
confession, Gierum was a participant in said unlawful transfer.
 
13.  That thereafter, as known to defendant Gierum, and as  known
to  defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton,  plaintiff Skolnick made
numerous public mentions of the  matters as in paragraphs 12, (a)
through (c) inclusive, and for  some  two  years  after  January,
1994,  defendant  Gierum  did  not dispute or challenge the same.
That  the  matter  was   referred   to   in  court  by  plaintiff
Andreuccetti, and defendant Gierum did not challenge  or  dispute
it there either.
 
14.    That   in  furtherance  of  the  scheme,  as  hereinbefore
mentioned,  defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton,  by  and through
defendant Gerald H. Parshall, Jr., on  February  16,  1995,  did,
caused  to  be done, committed, allowed, permitted, and condoned,
and acquiesced in the following:
 
(a) that for the purposes  of said hereinbefore described scheme,
defendant Parshall, acting for defendant Hillary Rodham  Clinton,
and  Parshall  purporting  to  be  a  Clinton  Justice Department
official,  flew  in  to  Chicago,  and  threatened,  coerced, and
terrorized plaintiffs Skolnick  and  Andreuccetti  in  a  hallway
outside   Courtroom  1858,  Dirksen  Federal  Building,  Chicago,
Illlinois, as follows:
 
(b) That in a menacing and threatening voice, defendant  Parshall
said  to plaintiffs Skolnick and Andreuccetti, while Parshall was
pointing to Skolnick sitting in his wheelchair, that Parshall was
going to  meet  privately  with  Chief  Bankruptcy  Judge John D.
Schwartz, to get Schwartz to jail Skolnick to stop Skolnick  from
investigating  and  making  public  statements  relating  to  the
hereinbefore described scheme and certain matters admitted to and
confessed  by  an  Internal  Revenue  official  of  the  Criminal
Investigation  Division  as hereinafter set forth.  Meaning to be
understood by defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton  by and through
defendant  Parshall,  and  so  understood  by  plaintiffs,   that
defendant  Hillary Rodham Clinton, by and through her confederate
defendant Parshall,  was  going  to  ex  parte  and privately get
Schwartz to misuse his federal authoriity ,  to  arbitrarily  and
without   authority   or  jurisdiction  over  Skolnick,  to  jail
Skolnick,  to  stop  Skolnick  from  investigating  and  publicly
disclosing matters relating to  the hereinbefore dsscribed scheme
by defendants.
 
(c) then and there clearly  visible to defendant Parshall, acting
for and on behalf of defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton,  was  that
plaintiff  Skolnick  is  a  helpless,  paraplegic  invalid  in  a
wheelchair.  That the acts and doings of defendant Hillary Rodham
Clinton,   by  and  through  defendant  Parshall,  were  done  to
terrorize plaintiff  Skolnick  and  coerce plaintiff Andreuccetti
standing  right  next  to  Skolnick's  wheelchair,  and  did   so
terrorize and coerce plaintiffs.
 
(d) That  U.S.  Magistrate  Joan  H.  Lefkow  who  occupies  said
Courtroom  1858,  and  her  deputy  clerk overheard said threats,
terror, and coercion directed  against plaintiffs in the hallway.
The deputy clerk of said Magistrate came to the door and  stated,
"We  inside  (meaning her and the Magistrate) can hear everything
you are saying.  Please  move  away  from  this doorway".  At the
time,  Magistrate  Lefkow  was  being  manipulated  by  defendant
Hillary Rodham  Clinton  and  defendant  Parshall,  in  that  the
husband  of  defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton  had  just prior
thereto appointed Lefkow to  be  a  U.S. District Judge, and said
appointment was being manipulated by  a  top  Justice  Department
official,  Sheila  Foster  Anthony, sister of Clinton White House
deputy counsel Vincent W.  Foster,  Jr., who died mysteriously in
July, 1993.
 
As  known  to  defendants  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton and Parshall,
plaintiff Skolnick as  a  commentator  had made public statements
that defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton  and  the  Clinton  Justice
Department were covering up what Skolnick and others believed was
the murder of Foster.
 
15.  That on or  about  April,  1995,  defendant  Hillary  Rodham
Clinton  flew  in  to  Chicago  to  appear  on the Oprah TV Show,
telecast out of Chicago  for  nationwide distribution.  That said
defendant, in describing plaintiff Skolnick, said that Skolnick's
comments have to be blocked.  By words, phrases, and  statements,
said  defendant  stated plaintiff is an evil person and should be
obstructed in what he is doing.  Meaning to be understood by said
defendant,  and  so  understood  by  plaintiffs,  that Skolnick's
investigation of said hereinbefore described  scheme,  is  to  be
obstructed  by  whatever  means  possible, even unlawful methods.
That by said  statements,  said  defendant confirmed and ratified
that she was  acting  to  terrorize  and  coerce  plaintiffs,  as
hereinbefore  described,  by  and  through defendant Parshall and
others.  Defendant Hillary  Rodham  Clinton  said in referring to
plaintiff Skolnick as  assisted  in  his  TV  Show  by  plaintiff
Andreuccetti,  that  there  is  a  person  in  this town (meaning
Chicago) doing a TV  about  me  (meaning  Hillary)  who has to be
stopped.  Meaning plaintiffs are to be "enemies of the state"  on
an "enemies list".
 
16.  That defendants Hillary Rodham Clinton and Parshall were  in
a  position  to  know  that Chief Judge Schwartz was the very one
they could use to seek to misuse his federal authority to falsely
jail Skolnick,  to  stop  plaintiff  Skolnick from investigating,
with plaintiff Andreuccetti, and by terror  to  block  Skolnick's
said  TV program referred to by defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton,
the hereinbefore described scheme.   On  or about December, 1994,
Judge Schwartz addressed all the lawyers and other  persons  then
and there in his court, as follows:
 
"That man in the wheelchair, Sherman Skolnick.  I don't  want  to
find  out  that  any  of  you  watch  or pay any attention to his
television show."  Which was  meant  as  a warning to lawyers and
other persons that come into the courthouse, that  something  bad
will  happen  to  them  if  they dared to watch Skolnick's Monday
evening program "Broadsides" on public access Cable TV in Chicago
and some suburbs.
 
17.  That shortly after the  matters with defendant Gierum, as in
paragraphs  12  through  12(c)  inclusive,  preceding,  plaintiff
Skolnick discussed the Gierum matter on Skolnick's recorded phone
commentary and on Skolnick's public access Cable TV Show.   Also,
plaintiff  Skolnick  assisted with a story about what Gierum said
in a one million circulation newspaper in Germany.
 
18.  Whereupon,  defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton,  under  the
pretense  of federal authority but without actual authority to do
so, put  plaintiffs  Skolnick  and  Andreuccetti  on  a so-called
"enemies list", to be targeted by the Internal  Revenue  Service,
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation, and other state and federal
agencies, without any  basis  in  law  or  in  fact to warrant or
authorize said plaintiffs to be so targeted.
 
19.   Up  to  about  October,  1994,  defendant  Amy Zisook was a
consultant in the White House to defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton
and to her husband, the President;  and acting in an advisory and
other  capacities  for  and  on  behalf  of  Household  Bank  and
Household International in respect to the Gierum  matter,  as  in
paragraphs  12  through  12  (c)  inclusive,  preceding,  and  in
furtherance of the scheme as hereinbefore described.
 
20.  On or about July, 1994, defendant Mark Zisook in furtherance
of the matter in paragraph 19 preceding, and  in  furtherance  of
having  plaintiffs on the said "enemies list"; and in furtherance
of the scheme hereinbefore described; that defendant Mark Zisook,
under the cover of being a purported insurance salesman, obtained
entrance into the private  residence  in Bensenville, Illinois, a
Chicago suburb, of plaintiff Andreuccetti  and  his  wife  Noemi.
Under  the  pretense  of  purporting  to  seek  to sell plaintiff
insurance, defendant  Mark  Zisook  proceeded  to grill plaintiff
Andreuccetti and his wife, as to  their  business,  as  to  their
family,  as  to  their  life  style, as to matters that relate to
their politics, and what  plaintiff knows about defendant Hillary
Rodham Clinton.
 
Defendant  Mark  Zisook,   describing   to  plaintiff,  regarding
defendant Amy Zisook, called  her  "my  sister",  and  said  that
shortly  "my  sister has to leave the White House because it is a
sinking  ship",  a  statement  calculated  to  elicit  data  from
plaintiff Andreuccetti as to  the hereinbefore described unlawful
secret transfer of 50 million dollars implicating Household  Bank
and  Household International and defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton
and  others,  as  in   paragraph   10  through  10(c)  inclusive,
preceding; and as to Household, with plaintiff  Andreuccetti  not
knowing  at  the  time  that  defendant  Mark  Zisook's relative,
defendant  Amy  Zisook,  has  been  in  an  advisory  capacity to
Household and in other capacities with them.
 
That  defendant Mark Zisook found some way to conduct himself and
the conversation,  that  he  stayed  many  hours  at  the private
residence  of  plaintiff  Andreuccetti.   Said  defendant   while
purporting  to  sympathize with the viewpoints of plaintiff as to
defendant Hillary  Rodham  Clinton;  that  defendant  Mark Zisook
acted that way by way of extracting from  plaintiff  data  having
nothing  whatever  to  do with the selling to plaintiff purported
insurance.
 
21.  That the acts  and  doings  of  defendant Amy Zisook, by and
through defendant Mark Zisook, were in furtherance  of  defendant
Hillary  Rodham  Clinton   having   plaintiffs  Andreuccetti  and
Skolnick  on  said  "enemies  list",  to  target  plaintiffs  for
espionage and to find some way to coerce them.
 
22.   That  a  scheme  related  to that in paragraphs 10 through
10(c) preceding was the following:
 
(a) that top officials of the Internal Revenue Service in Chicago
set about to steal  for  their  own  personal  use  and  benefit,
millions    of   dollars   of   properties,   called   Kingspoint
Condominiums, in Addison, Illinois,  a Chicago suburb, rightfully
belonging to plaintiff Andreuccetti;
 
(b) that  said  officials  had  the  blessings  and connivance of
Robert Cesca, acting inspector  general  of  the  U.S.  Treasury,
described  by  law enforcement officers that Cesca is the highest
mafia representative  in  the  U.S.  government.   That Cesca has
arranged  to  conceal   official   documents   that   incriminate
defendants  including  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton and her husband.
 
(c) that for the purposes of so stealing plaintiff Andreuccetti's
valuable properties, said top IRS officials were in a position to
blackmail   Chicago   Chief  Federal  Bankruptcy  Judge  John  D.
Schwartz, in that Schwartz had  been a director of First National
Bank  of  Cicero  which  through  a   fraud,   pushed   plaintiff
Andreuccetti  into  involuntary  bankruptcy;  that  Schwartz  put
himself  in  charge  of  all  matters  purporting  to  relate  to
plaintiff  Andreuccetti,  including  state  court litigation over
which Schwartz  had  no  lawful  jurisdiction.   Further, another
blackmail point against Schwartz was that he apparently  had  not
filed  any proper income tax in thirty years.  And still further,
that Schwartz had over 140 million dollars parked offshore in his
name.
 
(d) Moreover,  an  additional  blackmail  point  of  said top IRS
officials to  work  a  corrupt  and  malign  influence  on  Judge
Schwartz   to   their   benefit,  to  the  benefit  of  Household
International and Household Bank,  and  to the great detriment of
plaintiff Andreuccetti, was that the financial affairs  of  Judge
Schwartz  were  interwoven  with  a  strange  purported  Cadillac
dealer,  Emil  Denemark,  interwoven  with Marcinkus, the Vatican
Bank, and First National Bank of Cicero.
 
(e) That the top  IRS  officials  allowed,  permitted,  condoned,
approved  of,  and  acquiesced  in,  that  a purported Bankruptcy
Trustee, Jay  Steinberg,  linked  to  Household International and
Household Bank, caused to be  filed  in  the  name  of  plaintiff
Joseph  Andreuccetti,  false  and fraudulent income tax forms and
returns, without the knowledge  or permission of plaintiff Joseph
Andreuccetti.  Among other things, by said false  and  fraudulent
forms  and  returns,  the  top IRS officials, aided by Steinberg,
covered up a 900  hundred  thousand  dollar  to  one and one half
million  dollar  embezzlement  to   the   damage   of   plaintiff
Andreuccetti.
 
(f)  that  said  top IRS officials, aided by Robert Cesca, acting
inspector general of  the  U.S.  Treasury,  and  according to law
enforcement personnel, the highest ranking  mafia  representative
in  the  U.S.  government, have covered up the theft of plaintiff
Andreuccetti properties for their  own  personal use and benefit,
by causing the land titles of the same  to  disappear.   That  to
cover  up  the  unawful  transfer and other related matters, that
tend to  incriminate  defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton and her
husband, that Cesca and his confederates have concealed documents
relating to Hillary and Bill  Clinton  and  relating  to  matters
herein  of  high-level  corruption  of  top  officials  of IRS in
stealing plaintiff Andreuccetti's valuable property for their own
personal benefit.
 
23.  That in furtherance of the said scheme, and  to  coerce  and
terrorize   plaintiff  Andreuccetti,  defendants  Hillary  Rodham
Clinton, John E.  Gierum,  and  Gerald  H.  Parshall, Jr., acting
jointly and severally, and in concert with one  another,  caused,
approved of, condoned, and acquiesced in the following:
 
(a)  That  on  May  13,  1996,  defendant H.C. Valent came to the
private  residence  of  plaintiff  Andreuccetti,  in  the Chicago
suburb of Bensenville, Illinois, and then and there  in  a  loud,
threatening, and menacing voice, said to plaintiff Andreuccetti's
wife, Noemi, to wit:
 
"You and your husband are criminals  and I am going to confiscate
all your furniture and your clothes, and all these vehicles  near
your  house"  meant  by  said defendant to cause great stress and
anguish to  plaintiff  Andreuccetti  recuperating  from  a triple
bypass open heart operation, by so terrorizing plaintiff's  wife;
and did so cause plaintiff great terror, stress, and anguish.
 
That  defendant  H.C.  Valent did these acts and doings under the
sham and pretense of  being  a  purported  Revenue Officer of the
Internal Revenue Service, but without actual authority to do  so;
but  done  under  the  sham and pretense of federal authority and
while defendant  Valent  in  a  loud  and  threatening  voice and
menacing gestures repeatedly pushed her purported badge into  the
face of plaintiff's wife.
 
24.  That this was caused to  be done by defendant Hillary Rodham
Clinton putting plaintiffs on the aforesaid  "enemies  list";  to
obstruct  the  due  course of justice as to plaintiffs; to coerce
and terrorize plaintiff Andreuccetti  with the defendants knowing
that plaintiff Andreuccetti assists plaintiff Skolnick in various
ways as to the aforementioned public access Cable TV  Show,  such
as  plaintiff  Andreuccetti transporting the cable tapes, such as
plaintiff Andreuccetti transporting  plaintiff  Skolnick who is a
paraplegic and needs a wheelchair and  special  handling  to  get
around;  such  as  plaintiff  Andreuccetti  aiding  and assisting
Skolnick as a crusader as previously described.
 
25.   That many of the aforementioned acts and doings were caused
because the  plaintiffs  obtained  the  following confessions and
admissions:
 
26.  That on September 20, 1994, Plaintiff  Sherman  H.  Skolnick
and  plaintiff  Joseph Andreuccetti went to the 14th floor of the
Kluczynski Building,  headquarters  in  Chicago  of  the Internal
Revenue Service, at 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Plaintiffs there went to the Internal Revenue  Service,  Criminal
Investigation  Division.   Skolnick  said  he is a journalist and
wishes to speak with the Chief or acting Chief of C.I.D.
 
27.  A woman came to a door, said she speaks for the Chief, later
identifying  herself  as Lynette Redmer, and ushered Skolnick and
Andreuccetti to a conference room.
 
28.   Skolnick stated that he is a journalist, gave his card, and
stated he is head of "Hotline News" and participant of a TV Cable
Show, "Broadsides", and  founder/chairman, Citizen's Committee to
Clean Up the Courts.  He stated he is  there  with  Andreuccetti,
hereinafter  "Joe",  to report corruption, involving, among other
things, corruption of U.S. Bankruptcy Trustee Jay Steinberg.
 
29.  Skolnick told her that Steinberg, in the name  of  Joe,  has
been  preparing,  and  causing  to be prepared, and causing to be
filed,  false  and  fraudulent  federal  tax  forms  and returns,
without the knowledge or permission of Joe.
 
30.  That Steinberg has concealed that there was a  900  Thousand
Dollar    embezzlement    involving   Christian   Henning,   Jr.,
nephew/godson  of  Bishop  Paul  Marcinkus,  recent  head  of the
Vatican Bank.  That Henning falsely stated that he was a  partner
of   Joe.   That  Joe  was  falsely  and  fraudulently  put  into
involuntary bankruptcy in  1984,  still  pending, by, among other
things, a purported loan to him by First National Bank of Cicero.
That Joe never received said funds which instead were applied  by
Henning  and  others for other purposes.  That said Bank has been
dominated by Henning's Uncle, Paul Marcinkus, until recently head
of the mafia-dominated Vatican  Bank.  That Henning had corrupted
the U.S. Attorney's office in Chicago, including but not  limited
to  Assistant  U.S.  Attorney  William  R.  Hogan,  Jr.,  now  on
administrative  leave  because of charges of misconduct.  Result:
that Henning escaped adequate punishment.
 
31.  Ms Redmer, by words and statements, showed that she  already
knew  and  knew  much  about  much  of the foregoing, and did not
dispute Skolnick's recital of said facts and confirmed that Hogan
took bribes in civil  and  criminal matters, to protect Household
International, as in the federal prosecution in Chicago, of  U.S.
vs.  John Best.
 
32.  By words and statements, in  discussion  with  Skolnick,  Ms
Redmer  confirmed  that  her  agency  was having difficulty in an
apparent tax evasion case being  put together against Hogan.  She
confirmed that the difficulty was that Hogan was making  charges,
by  way  of  rebuttal  and blackmail, that upwards of six federal
judges in Chicago were corrupt and took bribes, including but not
limited to  Judge  James  F.  Holderman,  Judge  Marvin E. Aspen,
Suzanne B. Conlon, and Chief Bankruptcy Judge John D. Schwartz.
 
33.  That Ms Redmer was already fully aware of circumstances  and
details  regarding  Joe  having  been  the  owner  of  Kingspoint
Condominiums, in Addision, Illinois.  She was aware and confirmed
that  Robert  Belavia  together with Wallace Lieberman had stolen
said property;  that  Lieberman  on  other  occasions  was a U.S.
Bankruptcy auctioneer,  that  Belavia  is  a  long-known  mobster
previously having apparent government immunity.
 
34.  She was aware that FBI agent Mike "Chuckie" Peters, who  she
knows,  has  been accused of murdering or arranging the murder of
Lieberman near the  First  National  Bank  of Cicero, just before
Christmas, 1991.
 
35.  She stated she worked on the Belavia case, and  that  higher
ups,  in  her  agency,  who  she  understood  to be corrupt, were
anxious to have Belavia  prosecuted  on  some offense, to get him
out of the way.
 
36.  By words and statements, she confirmed that top officials of
her  agency,  on  the  next higher level, have corruptly taken as
their own  personal  property,  the  said Kingspoint Condominiums
properties; and confirmed that this  was  aided  and  abetted  by
Edward  J.  Lesniak, Household International, First National Bank
of Cicero, among others.
 
37.  By words and statements  she  confirmed  that  said  corrupt
doings  by  the  higher-ups  in  her agency, were accomplished by
having the land titles and  related  records as to Kingspoint, to
disappear,  to  be  unavailable  by  alleged  computer  so-called
"glitches", and other devices of concealment of ownership.
 
38.  By words and statements, she confirmed that  she  recognized
that  Chief Bankruptcy Judge in Chicago John D. Schwartz in Joe's
long-standing case, was  highly  corrupt.   She  did  not deny or
dispute that Judge Schwartz  has  a  net  worth  of  140  million
dollars  and  has not filed a proper federal tax return in thirty
years.  She cautioned Skolnick that  it was improper for him, "to
have those records", of her agency.
 
39.  She confirmed that she was aware of the facts of  corruption
at  the  highest  level  in the IRS in Chicago, as detailed about
Chicago and Los  Angeles  in  a  Congressional  Report in 1990 by
Cong.  Doug Barnard.  She said, "Let's deal with Chicago -- don't
tell me about L.A."
 
40.  She confirmed that she was  aware that the higher ups in her
agency  were  secret  and  silent  partners  in  at   least   two
mafia-owned  vending  companies  in  Chicago  Heights.  That said
corrupt IRS officials were aiding  the  mafia people to elude and
escape IRS problems.
 
41.   She  confirmed  that  her  higher  ups,  who  she  knew and
understood  to  be  corrupt,  were  allowing,   permitting,   and
condoning,  various  corrupt  Bankruptcy  Trustees,  not just Jay
Steinberg in Joe's matter,  to  file false and fraudulent federal
tax returns and details; by way of concealing the  plundering  of
bankrupt  estates  and  money  laundering  the  proceeds, or even
putting  persons  and  firms   not  actually  bankrupt  into  the
bankruptcy court to be plundered.
 
42.  She then and there said,  "What  is  the point of you and me
talking about all this when those higher up than me  in  IRS  are
corrupt?  What's the point of me even making a report?"  Skolnick
answered  that his contacts in the building will watch to see how
the higher ups in her building  are  going  to try to cover up my
complaint.  She said, to  Skolnick,  "Do  you  have  contacts  in
C.I.D.?"  He said, "You can presume that."
 
43.  She  used  words  and  statements  to  show  she  had inside
knowledge of Joe's problem.  She referred to a 54 or more million
dollar fund parked by Resolution Trust Corporation with Household
International, part of the details of  Joe's  various  pieces  of
litigation.  Turning to Joe, she said, "Well , your claim against
the  fund is mostly 32 million dollars punitive damage claim from
your DuPage matter", which Joe disputes.  She said, "The transfer
(secretly )  of  50  million  dollars  to  Little  Rock, that was
Whitewater, right?"  Skolnick confirmed that is  correct.   "They
only  needed  47  (million)  down  there,  what happened to the 3
million  difference?"   Confirming  that  she  knew  from  inside
details that the President and First  Lady are accused by some in
R.T.C. of being implicated in  the  embezzlement  of  47  million
dollars  missing  from  Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan of Little
Rock.  "Do you know exactly where in a secret trust they have the
50 million in Little Rock?" she said to Skolnick who said, "The 3
milllion difference  is  for  so-called 'transportation' expense,
that is, street tax."  She was aware  that  John  E.  Gierum  was
implicated  in  said  transfer and was a close crony of the First
Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 
44.  She discussed  with  Skolnick  and  Joe,  a  firm  known  as
Glenrock  Co.,  secretly  owned by Chicago Mayor Richie Daley and
his business crony  Jeremiah  Joyce.   Skolnick  said  to her, "I
notice you are not writing down anything  about  Glenrock."   She
answered,  "That's  the  Rostenkowski  matter  -- I can't go into
that."
 
45.  She confirmed that she  knew  and was aware that Glenrock, a
multimillion dollar operation in Northlake, Illinois, Brookfield,
Wisconsin, and Indianapolis, Indiana, did not keep proper records
for IRS and did not pay their proper income tax,  and  confirming
that  the  corruption  was  "wired  all  the  way  to  the  (IRS)
Commissioner" in Washington, D.C.
 
46.   That  after   a   discussion   between   Skolnick,   Joseph
Andreuccetti,  and  the said Lynette Redmer, speaking as she said
for the Chief of C.I.D., for some  hour and a half, she stood up.
As she did, Skolnick said to her, "Tell me straight in front,  is
everything  said  by  the  three of us the truth -- you, me , and
Joe?  Do you already know  it  to  be the truth?"  Whereupon, she
answered, "It is the truth, everything said in this room  is  the
truth",   and   she   ushered  Sherman  H.  Skolnick  and  Joseph
Andreuccetti out of the room and toward the elevator.
 
47.   That  the  scheme,  as   in  pararaphs  10  through  10(c),
preceding, for  the  unlawful  transfer  of  50  million  dollars
portion of 58.4 million dollars of funds of the Federal Home Loan
Bank,  parked  with Household Bank and Household International in
the Chicago area, and supposed to be held to make good the claims
of plaintiff Andreuccetti;  said  transfer  was  in three legs or
three steps, including but not limited to, as follows:
 
(a) from the Chicago area, to Little Rock, Arkansas;
 
(b) from  Arkansas,  disguised  as  purported  funds  of Arkansas
Development Finance Authority, wired by way of Fuji Bank  to  the
Cayman Islands;
 
(c)  and  from  there  disguised  as  funds relating to purported
insurance transactions, sent or wired to secret coded accounts in
Switzerland, for the benefit  of defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton
under the code "Chelsea Jefferson".
 
48.  Referring to the second leg  or second step of the same, are
the remarks of Congressman Dan Burton (R., Indiana), on  May  29,
1996:
 
"ADFA [Arkansas Development Finance  Authority]  was  created  by
Governor Clinton in 1985 to provide economic development loans in
Arkansas.   In  December of 1988, ADFA deposited $50 million in a
Japanese bank in  the  Cayman  Islands.   I  have  a  copy of the
contract that  I  will  enter  into  the  record.   I  have  also
delivered  a  copy  of this document to the Independent Counsel's
office.  Why would  an  economic  development  agency in Arkansas
deposit $50 million in a bank in the Cayman Islands?  The  Cayman
Islands  are  a  well-known  center  of money laundering for drug
dealers.  The State  Department's international narcotics control
report described the Caymans as 'a haven for money laundering'".
 
And also:  "One  of  the  questions  that  I  think is very, very
important is why did the Arkansas Development Financial Authority
send $50 million of Arkansas  money  to  the  Cayman  Islands  to
deposit  in  a  bank in the Cayman Islands, which is a major drug
transit point  acknowledged  by  almost  every  DEA  agent in the
world?"   And  also:   "I  have  the  electronic  bank   transfer
statements  in  my  office.   I  am  going  to  put  them  in the
Congressional Record.  There is no  doubt  the money was wired to
the Cayman Islands.  The question needs to be asked, why  was  it
wired?    Why   would  the  Governor  of  Arkansas  allow  that?"
Congressional Record, 5/29/96, H5627-28.
 
49.  Like  the  plaintiffs  in  the  instant  case, Cong.  Burton
apparently is also on some "enemies list"  of  defendant  Hillary
Rodham  Clinton.  As a consequence the Congressman apparently has
been coerced into not following through on his promise to put the
documents into the congressional  Record  and  a promise he made,
"Tomorrow night, since I am out of time now, Mr. Speaker, I  will
go  into  more  detail on the $50 million that was Arkansas money
that was transferred to the Cayman Islands, a major transit point
for drug trafficking in this hemisphere."
 
50.  The aforementioned unlawful transfer of the said 50  million
dollars  was  for the benefit of defendant Hillary Rodham Clinton
and to the great damage and detriment of plaintiff Andreuccetti.
 
51.  On June 13,  1996,  plaintiffs Skolnick and Andreuccetti met
with defendant Robert Alexovich who  alleges  he  is  a  "revenue
officer,  Internal  Revenue  Service".  Related to said defendant
were the details as in  paragraph herein preceding 23(a), adopted
here by reference as  if  verbatim  here  set  forth.   Defendant
Alexovich  said  it  was unlawful for defendant H.C. Valent to do
such acts and doings, but defendant Alexovich said to plaintiffs,
"That did not happen".  Yet,  defendant Alexovich has no personal
knowledge of said event and could not know whether it did or  did
not happen.
 
52.   Defendant Alexovich told plaintiffs that he did not know of
the matters as in preceding  paragraphs herein 10 (a) through (c)
inclusive, 22 through 22(f) inclusive, 25 through  46  inclusive,
all  adopted  herein  by reference as if verbatim here set forth.
Yet, prior to said meeting  on June 13, 1996, defendant Alexovich
had in his custody and possession documents, papers, and  records
by  plaintiffs  as  to said matters.  In his statements defendant
made false  declarations,  knowingly  so,  in  furtherance of the
schemes as hereinbefore set forth.
 
53.  After the said June 13, 1996, defendant  Alexovich  supplied
to plaintiff Andreuccetti false and misleading data calculated to
aid  and  abet  the higher ups at the Internal Revenue Service in
having stolen,  for  their  own  personal  use  and  benefit, the
valuable properties of plaintiff Andreuccetti.
 
(a) that in response to plaintiff Andreuccetti's  complaint  that
Bankruptcy Trustee Jay Steinberg filed false and fraudulent forms
and  returns  in  the  name  of  plaintiff  Joseph  Andreuccetti,
defendant Alexovich sent plaintiff a note stating, "here are some
of the records of filing you requested re:  the billing statement
you  submitted,"  with  various  sheets  showing  only zeroes and
containing the statement "return  not  present for this account";
thus evading records, known to said defendant, of an embezzlement
of between 900 thousand  dollars  and  one  and  a  half  million
dollars  which damaged plaintiff, as known to said defendant, and
should have been therein shown.
 
(b) that in  so  doing,  by  all  his  acts and doings, defendant
Alexovich sought to unlawfully  cover  up  that  a  form  211  by
plaintiff Andreuccetti was falsely rejected, with the statements:
"William  &  Hillary  Clinton  et  al." and "(1) recovery was too
small  to  warrant  payment   of  reward.   (2)  Information  was
previously known to the Service or available  in  public  records
readily accessible to the Service.  (3) Information furnished did
not cause investigation."
 
A  copy  of  said  alleged  response  to  plaintiff's form 211 is
attached hereto and made a  part  hereof; and a copy attached and
made a part hereof of said form 211,  being  an  Application  for
Reward for Original Information.
 
54.  That defendant Robert Alexovich did these  acts  and  doings
under  the  sham  and  pretense  of being a purported and alleged
Revenue Officer  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Service, but without
actual authority to  commit,  condone,  cause  to  be  done,  and
acquiesce  in,  said acts and doings; but done under the sham and
pretense of  federal  authority,  in  furtherance  of the schemes
hereinbefore set forth.  That  defendants  Alexovich  and  Valent
have  filed  and  caused  to be filed, false papers and documents
calling for the seizure of property of plaintiff Andreuccetti.
 
55.   That  acts  and  doings  were done, caused to be committed,
allowed, permitted,  and  condoned,  and  acquiesced  in,  by ten
defendants being John Does and Jane Roes whose  identity  is  not
now  know to the plaintiffs all in furtherance of the schemes and
acts and doings hereinbefore set forth.
 
56.   That  defendants,  each  of  them, individually, severally,
jointly, and in  concert,  and  aiding  and abetting one another,
have by their foregoing acts and doings against plaintiffs,  have
deprived   plaintiffs   Skolnick   and  Andreuccetti  of  federal
constitutionally protected  rights,  privileges,  and immunities,
including but not limited to the following:
 
(a) Under the First Amendment,  the right of plaintiffs to gather
news and inquire into wrongdoing by defendants and persons acting
with them, including persons and officials in high  position  and
places;  with  the right of plaintiffs not to be damaged in their
persons and properties while  so  doing,  by  the acts and doings
unlawfully done by defendants.
 
(b)  Violation of plaintiffs' rights under the First Amendment in
that "Congress shall make  no  law  respecting...the right of the
people...to petition the Government for a redress of grievances".
As hereinbefore set forth, the defendants have obstructed the due
course  of  Justice,  unlawfully  damaging  plaintiffs  in  their
persons  and  properties,  while  plaintiffs  are   involved   in
petitioning the Government for a redress of grievances.
 
(c)  Under  the  Fourth Amendment, "The right of the people to be
secure in their  persons,  houses,  papers,  and effects, against
unreasonable searches and seizures,  shall  not  be  violated..."
The  right  of  plaintiffs not to be spied on including the right
not to be spied  on  inside  their  private residences by persons
acting for others in high  places,  like  for  defendant  Hillary
Rodham Clinton; done under the sham and pretense of authority but
without  actual  authority to do the acts and doings hereinbefore
complained of.
 
(d) Violating the Fifth Amendment, the defendants have interfered
with  the  liberty  of  plaintiffs  and  deprived  plaintiffs  of
property without due process of law.
 
(e)  The acts and doings of defendants violate plaintiffs' rights
under the U.S .   Constitution,  Article  I, section 9, clause 3,
"No Bill of Attainder or ex post  facto  Law  shall  be  passed".
Defendants   have   caused   plaintiffs   to   be  designated  as
"criminals", to  be  threatened  in  their  liberty, persons, and
properties, as "enemies of the  state"  and  put  on  defendants'
"enemies list".
 
57.   That plaintiffs Skolnick and Andreuccetti have been damaged
in the amount of One Hundred Million Dollars.
 
58.    Wherefore,  plaintiffs  Sherman  H.  Skolnick  and  Joseph
Andreuccetti  ask   damages   against   the   hereinbefore  named
defendants, and each of them, of One Hundred Million Dollars  and
costs  and  fees  as  provided by law, and such other and further
relief as plaintiffs may be entitled to under the circumstances.
 
                            COUNT TWO.
                            ----------
 
Plaintiffs  Skolnick  and   Andreuccetti   complain  against  the
defendants as all named in Count One, and allege as follows:
 
1-55 inclusive as in Count One, adopted herein by reference as if
verbatim here in set forth.
 
56.  That defendants,  each  of  them, individually, jointly, and
severally, and in  concert,  have  caused  and  are  causing  the
circulation of data contending that plaintiffs are as follows:
 
(a) that plaintiffs Skolnick  and  Andreuccetti are members of or
supporters of Posse Comitatus and are in the category of what  is
known   as   "domestic  terrorists";  and  as  such,  that  these
plaintiffs are dedicated to  and  actually  do, damage and injure
public officials in their person and property;
 
(b) that plaintiffs Skolnick  and  Andreuccetti  use, cause to be
used, instigate  or  foment  the  use  of,  Federal  Land  Patent
procedures  to damage and injure public officials in their person
and property.
 
(c) that plaintiffs are so-called "illegal tax protectors" and/or
foment said movement; that said plaintiffs actively engage in the
same or make a business of taking cash and other  valuable  goods
and  services, for plaintiffs' personal use, from members of said
movement;
 
(d) that plaintiffs make and engage in a business and  enterprise
of  arranging,  fomenting,  instigating  and/or  persuading other
persons to form  offshore  trusts,  for  the purpose and apparent
purpose of aiding and abetting persons to  evade  and  circumvent
the Laws of the United States;
 
(e) that plaintiffs are so-called "gun nuts and are trigger-happy
persons, dangerous to  the  public  welfare  and actively aid and
abet others as such, to the detriment of public officials, public
welfare, domestic tranquilty, and national security;  that  these
plaintiffs  seek  to do physical violence against the persons and
properties of public officials;
 
(f)  that plaintiffs bring lawsuits and administrative procedures
to use  the  pendency  of  such,  often  belabored  and purposely
delayed, often long pendency of  such,  to  carry  out  a  secret
agenda of blackmail directed against public officials and others;
and  to  deter  public  officials  from  proceeding  to prosecute
plaintiffs for supposed crimes;
 
57.   That  defendants  rely  on such data as being true when, in
fact, such data are completely false  and have never been done or
committed by plaintiffs.  Defendants circulate such data  knowing
full well it is false.
 
58.  That defendants cause a secret  code to be attached to state
and  federal  records  labeling,  identifying,   and   targetting
plaintiffs and each of them, as in such data.
 
59.  That defendants circulate such data in  private,  ex  parte,
and in secret, to public officials that in any way have cases and
procedures  effecting plaintiffs, so that there is an obstruction
justice, damaging plaintiffs.  A few of the many examples:
 
(a) such data was  circulated  to  Chicago Federal District Judge
George  W.  Lindberg,  who  had  pending  a  case  by   plaintiff
Andreuccetti   seeking   a   remedy   for  fraudulently  begotten
judgments, corruptly  obtained  by  opponents  of  said plaintiff
corrupting John D. Schwartz.  Based on  such  false  data,  Judge
Lindberg  identified plaintiff Andreuccetti as "Posse Comitatus",
denied him all  relief  as  an  "enemy  of  the state" and called
plaintiff Andreuccetti's associate, plaintiff Skolnick, "a liar",
even though Skolnick was neither a party to the litigation nor  a
sworn  witness.   Based  on  this,  the way was opened to falsely
seize, in  November,  1993,  plaintiff  Andreuccetti's residence,
without a valid writ, and to seize and steal Cable TV tapes known
to be at said plaintiff's residence since he transports the  same
for  the  said  show;  and  seizing  and  stealing all his books,
papers, court records, financial  records, and such, and carrying
them away in a private vehicle under the  sham  and  pretense  of
deputy  sheriffs;  said  items  have  never been returned to said
plaintiff.
 
(b) Based on  this,  federal  law  enforcement  personnel  follow
plaintiff  Skolnick  around  the  Dirksen  Building,  site of the
federal courts, as  an  alleged "domestic terrorist", interfering
with Skolnick gathering news  as  an  electronic  journalist  and
moderator  of  "Broadsides"  said public access Cable TV program;
and interfering with Skolnick attending  open court sessions as a
spectator and journalist.
 
Plaintiffs  ask  the Court not to have to list here all the other
examples known by plaintiffs, but if requested by the Court to do
so, plaintiffs will give a more comprehensive list.
 
60.  Re-alleged from Count One, as if verbatim  here  set  forth,
paragraphs 56, 56(a), 56(b), 56 (c), 56(d), and 56(e).
 
61.   Realleged from Count One, as though verbatim here set forth
paragraphs 57 and 58.
 
                         Count Three.
                         ------------
 
Plaintiffs   Skolnick   and  Andreuccetti  complain  against  the
defendants as all named in Count One, and allege as follows:
 
1-55  inclusive  as  in  Count  One,  adopted  by reference as if
verbatim here set forth.
 
56.  Re-alleged from  Count  Two,  adopted  by  reference  as  if
verbatim  here set forth, paragraphs 56 through 60 inclusive.  As
to Bill of Attainder, re-allege from Count One, paragraph 56(e).
 
57.  Re-alleged  from  Count  One,  adopted  by  reference  as if
verbatim here set forth paragraphs 57 and 58.
 
        [signed]                [signed]   
        Joseph Andreuccetti     Sherman H. Skolnick
        990 County Line Road    9800 So. Oglesby Ave.
        Bensenville IL 60106    Chicago IL 606174870
        (708) 860-9930          (312) 375-5741
        Plaintiff, Pro Se       Plaintiff, Pro Se
 
                 VERIFICATION OF COMPLAINT.
                 --------------------------
The undersigned under the penalties for perjury and provisions of
28 U.S.C.A. $ 1746,  certify  that  the  matters  stated  in  the
foregoing  Verified  Complaint,  Counts  One, Two, and Three, are
true and correct to their  personal  knowledge, or are matters of
record or of law, and in either case, are true.  Executed on July
18, 1996.
 
[signed]                                     [signed]
Joseph Andreuccetti.                         Sherman H. Skolnick.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

