
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 9  Num. 43
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
GLORIA IN EXCELSIS
==================
[CN transcript of remarks by west coast researcher Dave Emory.]
 
[...continued...]
 
One last item here that  I'm  gonna talk about (actually, review;
we read this last week)  concerns  the  curious  associations  of
Geraldine Ferraro.  Again, by way of taking a look at reactionary
and   intelligence  infiltration  of  the  women's  movement  and
perhaps, at this point, control of the same.  Research credit for
this article  goes  to  Ted  Rubinstein,  and  it's  from a Betty
Beale(sp?) column.   She's  a  society  columnist.   And  it  was
carried  in  the  Cleveland  Plain  Dealer on October 14th, 1984.
It's featured by the News America Syndicate.
 
          Political Opponents Make Strange Playmates
 
  You'd never guess  it,  but ultra-liberal Geraldine Ferraro
  and super-conservative Roy  Cohn  are  friends.   In  fact,
  Cohn,  the  brash  young  investigator  of the Joe McCarthy
  days, may have  been  the  first  to  plug  Ferraro for the
  Democratic vice-presidential nomination.
 
  It happened at  Cohn's  birthday  party  last  February  at
  Regine's in the "Big Apple" [New York City].  It was "quite
  a  do," says Victor Laskey(sp?), author of *It Didn't Start
  With Watergate*.  "Our  Ambassador  to  Austria, Helena von
  Dame(sp?) was there, as was prominent  New  Yorker  hostess
  C.Z. Guest(sp?), Barbara Walters, the Rupert Murdochs, Andy
  Warhol,  Bianca  Jagger, the Charles Wickes(sp?), Baron and
  Baroness Ricky DePortnova(sp?), and  Heaven knows who else,
  and the John Zacaros(sp?)."  In fact, the Zacaros had  been
  at   previous  Cohn  birthday  celebrations.   [CN:   As  I
  recollect, Zacaro was/is Ferraro's husband.]
 
  It was  at  the  last  one,  however,  that the lawyer/host
  [Cohn]   introduced   Ferraro   as   the   possible    next
  vice-presidential   candidate   of  the  Democratic  Party.
  Playmates make strange politics.
 
Now  a  couple   of   the   interesting   points  about  the  Roy
Cohn/Geraldine Ferraro association and the  fact  that  Roy  Cohn
appears  to  have  been  the  first  person  to promote Geraldine
Ferraro as the Democratic vice-presidential candidate:  Roy Cohn,
although a luminary in New  York  society until his death, he was
nominally a Democrat.  But he was a  loyal  supporter  of  Ronald
Reagan  and  obviously  one  of  the  guiding figures of the "far
right" for a long time.  Also,  as  we've looked at from the book
*Farewell,  America*,  he  himself  was  a  participant  in   the
assassination of President Kennedy.
 
Now  the  fact  that the Geraldine Ferraro financial scandals, as
well as her husband's  questionable  deals with mafiosi possibly,
and real estate manipulations, were a couple of the  things  that
really   damaged   the   Democratic   campaign   in  1984.   It's
questionable whether Walter Mondale  would  have been able to win
at all.  But when the Democratic campaign got off on such  a  low
note,  it  was  basically  dead almost from the word go.  Mondale
never really had a chance,  and  Geraldine  Ferraro is one of the
reasons why.
 
Now the reason, again, that I bring up the Roy  Cohn  association
with  Ferraro...  And note, also, that Helena von Dame is a close
friend of Roy Cohn's -- of  course, her association not only with
Ronald Reagan, but Nazi war criminal Otto von Bolsing(sp?)  we've
dealt  with  in  Radio Free America show #3.  Helena von Dame was
Reagan's appointments secretary, drew up the lists of people from
whom  his  gubernatorial  appointments  were  made  when  he  was
Governor of California, and moved into the White House and became
Special White House Executive  Director for Personnel.  She chose
also, basically, the lists of people to be  selected  as  cabinet
appointees in this [Reagan's] administration.
 
The  question,  I  think, that has to be asked here is whether or
not, perhaps,  Geraldine  Ferraro's  alleged  shady  dealings and
those of her husband were known to  Roy  Cohn.   And  again,  the
possibility  of  a  Watergate-type counter-intelligence operation
has to be thought of here.
 
Now a  couple  of  other  interesting  associations  of Geraldine
Ferraro, both of which can be gleaned from the major  news  media
(I  don't  have  them with me at this time, because we're sort of
running out of  time)...   But  Geraldine  Ferraro  first got her
biggest boost as a  congresswoman  from  a  fellow  named  Joseph
Califano.  Joseph Califano was a former Pentagon official, a good
friend  of  Alexander  Haig, participant in the Bay of Pigs.  And
Califano  was  dismissed,  basically,  as  Secretary  of  Health,
Education and Welfare under Jimmy  Carter, because of his sort of
reactionary stands on  abortion  and  other  aspects  of  women's
rights.    The   fact   that   when   Geraldine  Ferraro's  badly
under-financed congressional campaign took  off, the fact that it
took off with money secured for her by Joseph Califano  from  the
Carter  campaign  is intriguing.  (By the way, you can read about
that in wire service  accounts  of  the  Ferraro rise in politics
right about  the  time  of  her  nomination  as  [candidate  for]
Vice-President.)
 
Beyond  that,  Geraldine  Ferraro's first press secretary was the
widow of Santo Barrio.  Santo Barrio was a DEA agent who, like so
many of the DEA agents, appears  to have worked both sides of the
narcotics question.  Barrio, by the way,  died,  and  appears  to
have  been  poisoned,  in  investigation  of  a  case (or perhaps
co-operation of a case)  called,  "The Company," that we're gonna
be  dealing  with  when  we  discuss  the  inter-relationship  of
organized crime, intelligence and narcotics.
 
So again, none of those associations are  conclusive  in  and  of
themselves.   Together, it's an intriguing picture of some of the
background of Geraldine  Ferraro.   And  in  light  of Roy Cohn's
devotion to Ronald Reagan, one has to  ask  whether  perhaps  the
Reagan  camp,  and  Cohn  in  particular, were aware of just what
Geraldine Ferraro and John Zacaro  had to hide.  Perhaps that was
the reason they manipulated them into that position in the  first
place.   Again,  bear  in mind the whole Watergate scenario where
dirty tricks were used to help deep-six the McGovern candidacy.
 
That more or less winds things up for the prepared portion of the
broadcast.  I'm gonna review  very  briefly what we've looked at,
because it's been a long section here.
 
We began by taking a look at Gloria Steinem, her association with
a CIA  front  called  "The  Independent  Research  Service,"  and
efforts   on   the  part  of  Steinem  and  associates  to  block
publication of that information --  first  of all by Random House
in a book called  *Feminist  Revolution*,  then  by  the  Village
Voice,  and  finally  by  the Heights and Valley News, a New York
community newspaper.
 
Then  we  took  a  look  at  further  information  confirming CIA
association with the Independent Research Service, that from *The
Espionage Establishment* by Wise and Ross.
 
Then we next  took  a  look  at  a  more  detailed account of the
Independent Research Service's  work  in  breaking  up  Socialist
youth  conferences  abroad.  And in particular, we took a look at
the fact that Clay Felker,  who  played  a key role in setting up
Steinem at Ms. [magazine], was an associate of Steinem's with the
Independent Research Service.
 
We also looked at the fact  that Katherine Graham was a principal
figure in helping to get Ms. [magazine] started and also a  major
stockholder.
 
We then looked at the fact that Gloria Steinem's paramour for the
last 9 years, at least as of 1984, was a  man  named  J.  Stanley
Pottinger,  implicated  in  an  arms  smuggling  scam  and,  more
importantly, J. Stanley Pottinger helped block the investigations
into  the  assassinations  of  Martin  Luther  King  and  Orlando
Letelier.
 
After that we took a look at the fact that Ms. [magazine's] first
publisher, Elizabeth Forsling Harris, appears  to have been a key
figure involved in setting  up  the  assassination  of  President
Kennedy.
 
After that, we took a look at the background of Katherine Graham,
a  principal  figure  in  the  whole Ms. axis.  Katherine Graham,
first of all,  was  part  of  an  "old  boy" intelligence network
inextricably involved with the  Washington  Post.   Her  husband,
Phillip  Graham,  had  worked  with  CIA official Frank Wisner in
setting  up  one  of   the  first  CIA/media  operations,  called
"Operation Mockingbird."
 
We then looked at how the Washington  Post  grew,  largely  as  a
result of assistance from the CIA.
 
We  took a look at the intelligence background of Washington Post
editor Ben Bradlee, and in  turn  his associations with old chums
Richard Helms, CIA Director at the time of Watergate, and also  a
guy   named   Cord  Meyer,  his  brother-in-law  and  a  key  CIA
counter-intelligence official himself.
 
We then looked at the  fact  that Phillip Graham, just before his
untimely  death,  became  very  disenchanted   with   the   CIA's
relationship to the news media -- perhaps more importantly, began
vocalizing  this disenchantment.  We then took a look at the fact
that this vocalizing didn't  last  too  long  because he blew his
brains out in August of '63, three months before John Kennedy had
*his* brains blown out.
 
We also took a look at how [Phillip Graham's]  attorney  was  key
intelligence-related   attorney   Edward  Bennett  Williams,  who
himself has possible connections to the assassination of Kennedy.
 
Following that, we took a look  at  the fact that Mary Meyer, the
former wife of  Bradlee  brother-in-law  Cord  Meyer,  who  [Mary
Pinchot Meyer] was Kennedy's lover, was murdered in the aftermath
of  the  Kennedy assassination, and her diary was appropriated by
James Angleton, CIA Chief of Counter-Intelligence.
 
We then looked at the  proposed  scenario by Debra Davis that the
CIA manipulated the Washington Post and used it as a vehicle  for
removing Richard Nixon because, basically, Nixon wanted to be too
big for the system.
 
And  we  then  also  took  a  look at the fact that "Deep Throat"
appears to have  been  CIA  counter-intelligence official Richard
Ober, again,  a  long-standing  friend  of  Ben  Bradlee  at  the
Washington Post.
 
Finally,  we  took  a  look  at  the  close political association
between reactionary attorney Roy Cohn and unsuccessful Democratic
vice-presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro.
 
                   [...to be continued...]
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

