

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 88
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

Special thanks to Charles Lewton (clewton@eskimo.com) for 
transcribing the following lecture by Dave Emory.

THE ASSASSINATIONS OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. & MALCOLM X
(Part 1 of 4)


Tape One--Side One.

"Fascism is something that might appear to be a long way away for
people, even now.  It is worth understanding how fascism came into
being in both Japan and Germany, to a lesser extent Italy, where
the terror was more random.  But in Japan and Germany, fascism came
about in considerable measure by the systematic assassination of
the legitimate political leadership of those countries.  In
Germany, underground units of the German army that were originally
put together above ground to combat the abortive socialist
revolution in Germany, they remained intact below ground and they
became known as the so-called Black Reichswer (sp).  They were
composed of the Freicorps (sp) or Free Corps, the Eine Vonevaren
(sp) and Zeitfreivillegenverbonde (sp).  All three organizations
put together of German army world war one veterans, they were put
together by the defense minister of the Weimar Republic, a fellow
named Gustav Nosgae (sp) and they were put together to combat
communism, to put down a socialist revolution in Germany, which
they did.  As I said, they then remained intact and proceeded to
systematically assassinate not only socialists and communists but
the legitimate political leadership of Weimar Germany.  That was
one of the reasons that Adolph Hitler's rise to power was as
relatively smooth as it was.  

Likewise, in Japan, the so-called patriotic or ultranationalist
societies, which were like crosses between organized crime
syndicates, religious groups, and nationalist societies.  They
systematically dispatched the legitimate democratic leadership of
Japan and paved the way for the rise of fascism in Japan.  The main
organization involved there was the Black Dragon Society, named
after the Ahmoor (sp) river, or Black Dragon River, which at the
time constituted the border between Russia and China, and the main
name behind the Black Dragon Society was a fellow named Mitsouru
Toyama (sp). 

The patriotic societies were directed by the Japanese general staff
as were the Freicorp, Eine Vonevaren, and Zeitfreivillegenverbonde
(sp)., even when they remained underground illegally, and in this
country, we are now faced with the results of an analogous program,
just as the German and Japanese military organizations felt it
necessary to begin using deadly force and covert action in their
own countries in order to eliminate individuals and institutions
that they considered to represent enemies at home.  So in the 1960s
and '70s, in the United States, our national security establishment
or significant elements of it began to use the same kind of deadly
force and covert action at home that they had been using abroad for
decades in order to maintain the strategic situation of not only
our national security establishment, but more importantly the
preeminent position of American based multinational corporations in
many parts of the world.

In the 1940s and 1950s, deadly force was used in a covert way in
places like Iran and places like Guatemala, and in other parts of
the third world in particular.  By the 1960s, what I like to sum up
in the old street expression "what goes around comes around", well
what had been going around in fact came around for the United
States.  The most significant element of this assassination program
was the assassination of president Kennedy in which the national
security establishment of this country removed the legitimate
constitutional authority, the legitimately elected constitutional
representative of the people, and they then installed their own
selectee, so to speak, Lyndon Johnson.  Kennedy had placed the
weight of the Oval Office against many of the policies which were
permitting the ongoing coups in places like Guatemala when Jacobo
Arbenz (sp) was overthrown, under the auspices incidentally of
fighting communism, Jacobo Arbenz had made it very clear when he
took office in Guatemala that what he sought to do was to bring
Guatemala up as a modern capitalist democracy.  He sought simply to
eliminate Guatemala as a feudal society, which was what it was, and
to bring it into the 20th century as an upbeat, upper-middle-class
capitalist country and he was explicitly capitalist but because
that would have threatened the profit margins of United Fruit and
other corporations who benefited from the feudal conditions in
Guatemala, he was deemed a communist and overthrown under that
rationalization.  Because John Kennedy refused to follow U.S.
national security policy in a number of areas such as Vietnam,
Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, and Guatemala, all of which
had coups or attempted coups, Kennedy refused to go along with
those coups, it was deemed necessary in the eyes of the powers that
be in this country to eliminate, to use the same kind of deadly
force at home that they had long been using abroad.

If you sit back and take a look at what happened to the progressive
political leadership in the United States over the 1960s and '70s,
thinking about progressive leaders ranging from political liberals
like John and Robert Kennedy, all the way on over to people who
would be classified on the political left, such as members of the
Black Panthers or perhaps Malcolm X.  What happened, for example to
Medgar Evers (sp), field secretary of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People--shot to death in 1963.  What
happened to president John F. Kennedy--shot to death in 1963.  What
happened to Malcolm X--shot to death in 1965.  What happened to
Martin Luther King--shot to death in 1968.  What happened to Robert
Kennedy--shot to death in 1968.  What happened to Fred Hampton, a
very prominent member of the Black Panthers who had been very
successful in organizing a free breakfast and lunch program for
ghetto school children in Chicago--shot to death in 1969.  What
happened to Jonathan and George Jackson, the two members of the so-
called Soledad Brothers--shot to death in 1970, I believe, and 1971
respectively.  I may be wrong about the dates.  What happened to
Faye Stender (sp) who was George Jackson's attorney--shot and
critically wounded and permanently disabled in 1979.  What happened
to George Mosconi, the liberal mayor of San Francisco--shot to
death in 1978.  What happened to Harvey Milk, the first gay city
councilman in San Francisco--shot to death in 1978.

Well, at a certain point, you would begin to think that people
would catch on to what was going on in this country.  Apparently,
though, Americans have chosen to ignore the obvious and because we
have chosen as a people to ignore the obvious, we are now faced
with exactly what the German and Japanese people and ultimately the
whole world were faced with after far too many of them ignored the
assassination programs in Japan and Germany.  And those
assassination programs led directly to the rise of fascism in those
countries and the rise of fascism led directly to the second World
War with all its attendant horrors.

We here in this country have ignored a similar process and this
evening, by way of helping to raise support for KFJC, and by way of
helping to document a critical element of American history, we are
going to be observing Black History Month by discussing the
assassinations of Martin Luther King and Malcolm X, arguably the
greatest black leaders in American history.  We should remember as
we listen to the accounting of events this evening that these are
not things which took place in the past.  The same forces which
destroyed Martin Luther King and Malcolm X are with us today and
they are still operating in the same fashion.  Leaving aside for
the moment the bombing in New York City on Friday and during the
question and answer session, I would be more than willing to
entertain whatever questions you have.  It should be noted that in
1991 we had a chilling reminder that a political assassination in
America is not a past activity when journalist Daniel Casalero (sp)
was found, supposedly a suicide, in Martinsburg, West Virginia, in
his hotel room.

Danny Casalero had been investigating many of the same elements
that I talk about on One Step Beyond, that I talk about in my
lectures and he had come very close to unearthing some critical
information about the intersecting activities of a number of
different national security institutions.  He had been warned that
his activities could get him killed.  He had been getting death
threats for quite some time.  After, after Danny Casalero was
clinically determined to have been dead, many hours afterward, his
housekeeper got a phone call in which an unidentified male caller
said "You're dead, you son of a bitch" and hung up.  When the truth
eventually came out, it was learned that not only did Danny
Casalero have a number of bruises that had not been reported
initially, but that three of his fingernails had been pulled out
and that yet, most of the institutions in this society, including
a lot of so-called progressive media organizations and individuals
labeled Danny Casalero a suicide.  Well, that is one hell of a
suicide.  Three fingernails pulled out suggests much more like
Danny Casalero prior to being murdered had been tortured.  

So, as I indicated at the beginning of the talk tonight, sooner or
later what goes around comes around and as we observe the closing
of February which is Black History Month, remember that what
eventually came around for Martin Luther King and Malcolm X is
going to be coming around for many of us sooner or later.

Now, to begin, I am going to discuss the assassination of Martin
Luther King and eventually we will move on to Malcolm X.  With the
Spike Lee film about Malcolm X still somewhat in the public eye,
Malcolm's assassination has received more attention than it has
received in the past, there's a very good book out called *The
Judas Factor* by a fellow named Carl Evanzz, which in my opinion is
the best work done to date on the assassination of Malcolm X.  Much
of the information that I am going to be presenting about the
Malcolm X killing this evening comes from that book.  It is
currently available.  It is put out by Thunder's Mouth Press and I
strongly recommend it to any and all interested parties.

Now the best hard information about what actually did happen vis-a-
vis the assassination of Martin Luther King and what I am going to
be talking about this evening is also what didn't happen, namely
Martin Luther King was not killed by James Earl Ray, who was a poor
dumb cracker who couldn't knock off a liquor store in Missouri
without getting caught and yet he supposedly assassinated one of
the most famous people in the world and conducted a very
sophisticated and largely successful international flight using
techniques that would be available in all likelihood only to an
experienced intelligence agent with considerably more resources at
his disposal than James Earl Ray had.  I am going to be talking
about how history has come to accept what I guess we could call the
32-blows-to-the-head version, the suicide version, of Martin Luther
King's assassination.  Namely that some poor dumb cracker, again
another lone nut named James Earl Ray, shot Martin Luther King. 
James Earl Ray not only didn't act alone to kill Martin Luther
King, James Earl Ray did not act at all and I am going to be
talking about how he came to be framed for the killing.

The best account, though, of what did happen in the assassination
of Martin Luther King, comes from a fellow named Robert Byron
Watson.  Watson was an employee at the Magellan Art Gallery in
Atlanta, Georgia and while at that art gallery, he learned
information about a drug and gold smuggling ring that was being
operated by a faction of U.S. intelligence using the Magellan Art
Gallery as its operational base.  This particular ring, again,
operated on behalf of a faction of U.S. intelligence and they were
smuggling drugs out of Southeast Asia in hollowed-out teak logs. 
They were also doing a great deal of gold smuggling as well. 
Watson overheard these individuals discussing the upcoming
assassination of Martin Luther King.  He also heard them discussing
what happened vis-a-vis the King assassination afterward and he
presented his information to law enforcement authorities despite
considerable pressure that was brought to bear both on him and his
mother. Both Watson and his mother were threatened by death, both
before and after the actual assassination of Martin Luther King. 
Robert Byron Watson then went ahead and submitted his affidavit. 
Law enforcement, to the extent that it was pursued, found it to be
accurate, yet they never were able to act on it past a point.  The
main names associated with this particular gold and drug smuggling
ring, and again bear in mind this was operated on behalf of U.S.
intelligence, one of the main names was that of former Georgia
congressman Larry McDonald, a national head of the John Birch
Society, also a head of a private right-wing intelligence
organization called Western Goals.  Larry McDonald is perhaps best
known for having gone down on the Korean Airlines flight 007 which
went down under mysterious circumstances over the Soviet Union in
September of 1983.  That incident one of the more dramatic
incidents of the cold war in the early 1980s.  In addition to that
of Larry McDonald, another important name associated with this drug
and gold smuggling ring was that of Faud Habash (sp).  Faud Habash
is the brother of George Habash, one of the best known Palestinian
leaders and the head of the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine.  Not, by the way, the Popular Front for the Liberation
of Palestine General Command, elements of which have been
implicated in the bombing of PanAm 103.  They are distinct
organizations.  Habash, himself, has very strong connections,
George Habash that is, to the fascist Third Position.  He also has
very strong operational links to U.S. intelligence and while there
was a Soviet intelligence, he also had operational links to the
Soviets, as well.  An interesting fellow.  His brother was one of
the main functionaries in this drug and gold smuggling ring that
was involved at the operational level in the assassination of
Martin Luther King.

Now the other name that we want to know vis-a-vis this drug and
gold smuggling ring, and again these were the actual gunsuls, these
were the um-de-nam (sp), these were the hands-on individuals, the
hurt-ya kind of guys who were involved in killing Dr. King
according to Robert Byron Watson and other independent
investigations.  Among the people involved with this organization
was a fellow who used the name Herman Jackson.  That was the name
he used when working on behalf of this drug smuggling ring.  His
actual name, or at least as far as we have able to tell, was a
fellow named Jack Youngblood.  Jack Youngblood was a longtime U.S
intelligencer. He had worked with, among others, Frank Fiorini, who
later changed his name to Frank Sturgis and became known as one of
the Watergate burglars.  He worked directly with Frank Fiorini in
the 1954 coup that overthrew Otto Benz in Guatemala.  He then, like
Frank Fiorini, aka Frank Sturgis, went to work for other U.S.
intelligence operations and apparently one of those operations was
the assassination of Martin Luther King.

Now, James Earl Ray, the patsy for the assassination, who by the
way was never actually convicted in a trial per se, he confessed to
the assassination of Martin Luther King and then later reversed his
confession.  But James Earl Ray was offered a lot of money, now
bear in mind this was a poor individual, an individual who had no
money, a lengthy criminal record, and basically stood more to gain
from pleading guilty than he did from remaining innocent, but he
agreed to plead guilty in exchange for a large portion of the
rights to a book offered by a fellow named William Bradford Huie.

Huie wrote a book called *He Slew the Dreamer*.  He coughed up a
large section of the proceeds for that book and that was basically
James Earl Ray's incentive for pleading guilty.  Later when Ray
reversed his guilty plea and began to spill the beans about what
really happened, Ray said that he had been trafficked around by a
mysterious individual that he met called Raoul.  And Raoul, he
identified, interestingly enough as being part of a smuggling ring. 
He never knew who they were connected with, but one of his main
jobs had been to help smuggle arms across the Canadian/American and
Mexican/American borders in conjunction with Raoul who was his
contact.  It would appear in this regard that Ray was being
manipulated and set up to be a patsy by Raoul, who was in all
probability was acting in behalf of some faction of U.S.
intelligence, if not in fact the same gold and drug smuggling ring
that Robert Byron Watson had identified.  Raoul was the individual
who told James Earl Ray where to go and what to do and appears to
have basically been his intelligence handler.

Law enforcement authorities have checked out Robert Byron Watson's
claims to a considerable extent.  They have found them credible,
yet this has never resulted in any kind of serious investigation
beyond the lick-and-a-promise that the Robert Byron Watson
affidavit was given by law enforcement.

To this day, it remains the end of the trail, so to speak, of the
hard investigative pathway into Martin Luther King's assassination.

Now, Jack Youngblood's name also crops up in addition to the Robert
Byron Watson affidavit, Jack Youngblood's name crops up in
connection with the assassination of Martin Luther King because the
actual shooter, and I am going to talk about the framing of James
Earl Ray, but the actual shooter in the Martin Luther King
assassination, appears to have been an individual who has become
known in the literature as the "Eggs and Sausages" man.  Now there
was a cafe near the rooming house that James Earl Ray supposedly
was living, well he was living there--at least he was booked there. 
Near the rooming house from which James Earl Ray supposedly fired
the shot that killed Martin Luther King, there was a cafe called
Jowers' Cafe.  It was run by a fellow named Lloyd Jowers and for
some time prior to the assassination of Martin Luther King, an
individual who had previously not been a regular at Jowers' Cafe,
and generally the clientele there was composed of regulars, this
was an individual who had not been seen there before and began
showing up shortly before the assassination of Martin Luther King,
and he always ordered eggs and sausages.  He became known as a
result as the "eggs and sausages man" and has gone down in history
as such.

One day this strange individual came in and sat down and placed his
usual order, namely eggs and sausages, he finished his order, paid
his tab, and then went outside and shortly after he went outside,
the patrons of Jowers Cafe heard an enormous explosion like the
report of a high-powered rifle.  Later, the "eggs and sausages man"
was picked up by police because the members of the clientele of
Jowers' Cafe id'd this individual as the "eggs and sausages" man. 
He never, however, was booked on suspicion of having killed Martin
Luther King, as a Memphis journalist named Wayne Chastain (sp), who
wrote for the Memphis Press Scimitar noted when he interviewed the
individuals at the prison.  The individual in question, the "eggs
and sausages" man, made one call to a party or parties unknown and
was released by the Memphis police without any questioning
whatsoever.  As the individual noted, he must have some powerful
connections to be able to just walk out of jail free like that. 
Later, an individual who identified himself as Jack Youngblood, and
who also identified himself as a long-time U.S. intelligence
operative, and incidentally an individual operating out of Denver,
Colorado, he sought out Wayne Chastain, again of the Memphis Press
Scimitar, and expressed the fear that he might be mistaken for the
individual who assassinated Martin Luther King and said that the
actual assassin was his Denver, Colorado roommate.  

When shown pictures, and by the way, that is about where the "eggs
and sausages" man's trail leads off, when shown pictures of Jack
Youngblood, James Earl Ray identified him as an individual that he
had seen trailing him for several days prior to the assassination
of Martin Luther King.  There are a number of other indications
that James Earl Ray and Martin Luther King were maneuvered into
place and that the assassination was set up in advance by the
authorities.  The place where Martin Luther King was staying was
supposed to have been a secret.  Eventually it came out courtesy of
the FBI.  Now the FBI had at this time been not only monitoring
Martin Luther King very closely, but it had been for some time
engaged in a counterintelligence program against black activist
groups ranging from militant black-power activists, all the way
through mainstream civil rights activists, this intelligence
program became known as the COINTELPRO program, short for
counterintelligence.  It was also utilized against elements of the
anti-Vietnam War movement as well.

When FBI people learned that Martin Luther King was going to be
staying at a white-owned business in Memphis, Tennessee where he
had gone to help negotiate a strike between largely-black
sanitation workers and the city of Memphis, the FBI leaked the
information to the press about the fact that Martin Luther King was
going to be staying at a white-owned business.  This obviously was
bad PR for Martin Luther King and so his reservations were then
switched to the black-owned Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee,
and that information was published in the Memphis press so it
became a matter of public record to anyone who would or wanted to
read a newspaper as to where Martin Luther King was going to be
staying in Memphis, Tennessee.

Prior to Martin Luther King's arrival, a mysterious individual
showed up at the Lorraine Motel, identified himself a "an advance
man" for Martin Luther King and when noting where Dr. King was
scheduled to book into, he said, "Oh, no this won't do.  Dr. King
always likes to have a room on the second floor overlooking the
swimming pool".  It was from just such a room to which he was
switched that Martin Luther King was ambushed and I will talk more
about the physical circumstances in a couple of minutes.

Suffice it to say that one of the employees of the motel voiced the
opinion at the time that this individual was not a black man at
all, but rather a white man wearing black-face makeup.  It should
be noted that it later came out that among the many stratagems used
by U.S. intelligence at the operational level to disrupt both the
black-power movement and the antiwar movement was the utilization
of white men in black-face, basically to simulate black people to
perform acts either of stealth intelligence or acts of provocation
which would them discredit blacks because they would be taken as
being black people.  Whatever the true situation vis-a-vis the
advance man, it certainly was not Dr. King's advance man because
Dr. King very simply did not use advance men at all.

Eye witnesses to Dr. King's assassination, both people who were on
the street and people who were with Dr. King on the balcony of his
second floor motel room, and it was on that balcony that Dr. King
walked out onto to talk to his chauffeur, who was on the ground,
and it was in that position that he was assassinated.  Eye
witnesses to the assassination believed that the shot was not fired
from the second floor of the rooming house that James Earl Ray was
staying at, but rather was fired from ground level. 

This was described both by people who were sitting near a clump of
bushes underneath the window on the second floor that James Earl
Ray supposedly used to shoot Martin Luther King, also people
standing both on the ground looking up at Dr. King, such as his
chauffeur, and people on the balcony with Dr. King testified that
he appeared, Dr. King that is, appears to have been lifted
physically off of the ground.  The shot caught him in the neck and
traveled upwards back through the back of Dr. King's head.  The
bullet was travelling upward rather that across or downward as it
would have been had it been fired from a second floor window which
James Earl Ray supposedly did.

At James Earl Ray's trial, incidentally, a former FBI ballistics
expert named Hubert McConnell (sp) testified that for James Earl
Ray to have fired the shot from the position he supposedly fired
the shot, the butt of his rifle would have to had stuck 6 inches
into the wall.  I'll leave it to your discretion as to whether you
think James Earl Ray actually did that or whether perhaps he was
set up.  The prosecution then replied to the testimony of Hubert
McConnell by stating that James Earl Ray twisted himself into a
contorted position around the bathtub and that was how he was able
to fire the shot that he supposedly fired to kill Martin Luther
King.

Now the "evidence" implicating James Earl Ray is about as flimsy as
anything could possibly be.  A rifle was found wrapped in a blanket
on the ground floor outside the rooming house where James Earl Ray
was staying.  It was not actually found where James Earl Ray
supposedly fired the shot.  The rifle has never been absolutely
traced to James Earl Ray.  Ray claims that he was being followed
around and that this rifle was probably left by Raoul or by Jack
Youngblood, the individual he identified as following him around. 
But, the only "evidence" that has ever been cited or ever been
mobilized in order to link James Earl Ray with the crime that he
supposedly committed, was the "testimony" of a fellow named Charles
Q. Stevens (sp).  Charles Q. Stevens was a career drunkard and a
doctrinaire racist who was also a tenant at the rooming house that
James Earl Ray was staying in where he supposedly killed Martin
Luther King.  A cab driver who had been called to the rooming house
to pick up Charles Q. Stevens testified that Charles Q. Stevens was
too drunk to be taken out in his cab and that he was actually
passed out and had to be awakened from a couch.  This was at the
time that he was supposedly id'ing James Earl Ray.  For two days
after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Charles Q. Stevens
did not identify James Earl Ray as having been the assassin of
Martin Luther King.  On the contrary, he issued a number of
statements to various people which have been cross-verified that
"I'd never testify against the man who killed Martin Luther Koon,
even if it were a nigger who had done it".  

Basically, he was saying for 48 hours that a black man had killed
Martin Luther King and that he would not id him in any case because
he hated Martin Luther King too much.  However, eventually the FBI
began to baby-sit Charles Q. Stevens.  They footed some $30,000 in
bar tabs for Charles Q. Stevens.  This was in 1968 and this was an
individual who had a career rap sheet of some 130 some-odd arrests
for public drunkenness.  The FBI then paid for $30,000 in bar tabs
for Charles Q. Stevens and whether it was perhaps a refreshment of
memory or perhaps the pliant effects of all that liquor, 
miraculously, eventually Charles Q. Stevens changed his testimony
and said yes, by God, he could identify James Earl Ray as the
individual who was running down the hall and had shot Martin Luther
King.  That is the only witness ever cited to link Ray with the
place from which he supposedly slew Dr. King.  The only one.  

And, again, $30,000 in bar tabs in 1968 was a lot of booze.  A
dollar was worth a lot more then than it is now and $30,000 in bar
tabs is a considerable amount of booze today and this again for an
individual with a career rap sheet of some 130-odd arrests for
public drunkenness.  His, that is to say, Charles Q. Stevens'
common-law wife, a woman named Grace Walden or Grace Stevens, about
whom I'll have more to say in a little bit, has contradicted the
testimony of Charles Q. Stevens.  She has stated that she indeed
did see an individual wearing a khaki field jacket running down the
hall of the rooming hall after she heard the shot but that it was
not James Earl Ray that in fact it was a man considerably shorter
than James Earl Ray.  She saw the man, her common-law husband was
passed out on a couch drunk when a cab driver was called to pick
him up, went to pick him up, and it was Grace Stevens or Grace
Walden who said that no indeed it was not James Earl Ray who was
running down the hall of that motel room.  We are going to talk
about what happened to her in just a minute.

It should be noted that the summer after Martin Luther King was
killed, his brother was drowned under suspicious circumstances in
the swimming pool of his home.  A neighbor recalls hearing someone
scream and heard splashing and then silence and that eliminated Dr.
King's brother.  A couple of years later, his mother was shot and
killed as well by some lone nut who went walking into a church and
blew away his mother for reasons that have never been
satisfactorily explained.  Suffice it to say that two of the people
closest to Martin Luther King were also dead under strange or
downright hostile circumstances within a short time of Dr. King
having been assassinated.  And bear in mind that King was
assassinated at a period in time in which it is a matter of public
record that of the U.S. national security establishment or elements
thereof, notably the FBI, were actively engaged in a frustrating of
the civil rights and black power, and anti-Vietnam war movements as
a matter of public record.

We are going to talk about the cover-up and how that was effected
in just a couple of minutes, but one of the main things to
understand too as we examine what is obviously fallacious history,
and history has recorded it that James Earl Ray killed Martin
Luther King.  One of the interesting things about James Earl Ray's
situation is the individuals who have represented James Earl Ray
over the years.  Now, James Earl Ray's first attorney was a fellow
named Arthur Haynes (sp), specifically Arthur Haynes, Sr., because
there is also an Arthur Haynes, Jr.

Arthur Haynes had been the mayor of Birmingham, Alabama in the
early 1960s.  He was a former FBI agent and former CIA contract
agent who not only was not sympathetic to Dr. Martin Luther King,
but who had viewed the American black civil rights movement as a
communist conspiracy, in that regard, his views coincided very
closely with to the views of, among others, J. Edgar Hoover,
America's best-known, though not necessarily best-loved closet
queen at the time.  Now, again, note that Arthur Haynes, a "former"
FBI agent believed that the American black civil rights movement
was a communist conspiracy.  He also had been involved in the Bay
of Pigs invasion as a CIA contract agent.  Now, I should note that
a contract agent is not an agent who does "contracts', i.e.,
assassinations in mob parlance.  A contract agent is an individual
who goes to work for the CIA for a particular purpose as opposed to
a career operative.  He literally signs a contract to do this,
that, or the other thing and he does it.  The concept of him
eventually severing contacts with the agency is a dubious one. 
Arthur Haynes, Arthur Haynes, Sr., I should say, was a member of
the Alabama Air National Guard, which in the early 1960s, and
specifically in 1960 and 1961 was one of the only American air unit
still utilizing the B-26 Marauder bomber.  That was a World War Two
propeller driven medium bomber which was utilized for the Bay of
Pigs invasion by the CIA.  A number of B-26s were outfitted with
large numbers of 50 caliber machine guns so they could by used
against ground targets in support of the Bay of Pigs invasion and
Arthur Haynes was used by the CIA to train pilots, Cuban exiles, to
fly the B-26s which provided the air support for the Bay of Pigs
invasion.

Arthur Haynes pursued his avid, or he activated I should say, his
deep hatred for the civil rights movement in the 1960s.  He was
noted for having unleashed John "Bull" Connor, the brutal sheriff
of Birmingham, Alabama on civil rights demonstrators in the early
60s.  "Bull" Connor unleashed fire hoses and police dogs on civil
rights demonstrators and much of the footage that you will see from
that time period of civil rights demonstrators being hosed down and
being beaten and attacked by police dogs comes from Birmingham,
Alabama and the individuals who were meting out the punishment are
the deputies of John "Bull" Connor, who was sheriff of Birmingham
and he in turn was acting on behalf of Arthur Haynes, Sr., the
first attorney representing James Earl Ray.  Arthur Haynes also,
incidentally, was the defense counsel for four Ku Klux Klansmen who
were eventually convicted of the 16th Street Baptist Church
bombing.  The 16th Street Baptist Church bombing was one of the
most notorious incidents of violence in the civil rights struggle
in the South in the early 60s.  A very powerful bomb went off in a
church in Birmingham, Alabama on a Sunday morning, killing four
young black girls and injuring a number of other people.  The crime
outraged the public as a whole.  Eventually, four Ku Klux Klansmen
were convicted of the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing, their
defense counsel for quite some time was Arthur Haynes, Sr.  Later,
they were represented by Arthur Haynes, Jr., his son, who turned
out to be a chip off the old blockhead, so to speak, and basically
continued to activate the sort of racist viewpoints which Arthur
Haynes, Sr. had held and put into effect.

After Arthur Haynes, Sr. had represented James Earl Ray, James Earl
Ray was represented by a Texas attorney named Percy Foreman, who
had previously represented among others, Jack Ruby, for a short
period of time.  One of a number of evidenciary tributaries which
connect the various American political assassinations and attempted
assassinations of the early 60s and 1970s.

Now following Percy Foreman's resignation, the next attorney who
represented James Earl Ray was a fellow named Jesse B. Stoner, or
JB Stoner as he was usually called.  JB Stoner was the head of the
National States Rights party, which was a doctrinaire racist and
fascist political party which had most of its strength in the south
and its main plank or the main plank in its political platform was
its diehard opposition to the black civil rights.  Incidentally,
there was, now bear in mind that this guy was representing James
Earl Ray, none of these individuals, we can certainly say that
Arthur Haynes and JB Stoner would be two of the last individuals
who would like to see the truth brought out concerning any
possibility of a conspiracy behind the assassination of America's
foremost civil rights leader.  By the way, we should note that Dr.
King's assassination came in a time period in which he was turning
much of his attention from the civil rights movement per se to
active opposition to the United States' war and involvement in
Vietnam.  This is worth noting because as we compare some of the
strategic circumstances in the assassinations of Martin Luther King
and Malcolm X, it is to be noted that the careers of both men were
taking very sharp turns and they had both undertaken some very
significant and radical departures from their past political
activities.  In the case of Dr. King, he was moving to anti-Vietnam
war activism, activism vis-a-vis American foreign and military
policy as opposed to just civil rights and in the case of Malcolm
X as we will get to in a short period of time, Malcolm X had
dramatically changed his viewpoints as well.  He had broken very
sharply with the Nation of Islam, the so-called Black Muslims, over
a number of things, and we will talk about that.  He had notably,
radically changed his opinions concerning the viability of black
people and white people working together for social justice.  One
of the main ideological tenets of the Nation of Islam under Elijah
Muhammed had been that black people should not work with white
people in a political context and indeed the Nation of Islam itself
was largely kept from overt political activities, fund-raising
being a notable exception.

Dr. King, again, was cut down and among the people representing the
guy who supposedly killed him was Arthur Haynes, a man with
documented connections to the intelligence community and a well
documented hatred of black people and an active self-congratulatory
racism, so to speak, Jesse Stoner even more so.  Jesse Stoner was
the head of an explicitly racist and fascist political party,
again, the National States Rights Party.

Now interestingly enough, on November 10th, 1963, twelve days
before the assassination of president Kennedy, a Georgia-based
representative of the National States Rights Party, a fellow named
Joseph Adams Miltier (sp) was taped by an undercover Miami police
informant who was basically wearing a "wire".  In this
conversation, and again Miltier was a representative of the NSRP
headed up by James Earl Ray defense counsel JB Stoner.  Miltier
described a couple of things, actually he described three things of
note for us under the circumstances.  First of all, he described a
plan to assassinate John Kennedy by ambushing him from a high-rise
office building using a high-powered rifle.  This on November 10th,
1963.  He also described plans to do the same thing to Martin
Luther King and he linked both of these incipient assassinations,
both of which later came to be under circumstances remarkably
similar to those described by Joseph Adams Miltier on November
10th.  He also linked both crimes with the 16th Street Baptist
Church bombing in Birmingham, Alabama in 1963.  And it was the
people convicted of the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing who were
represented by Arthur Haynes, Sr. and it was Arthur Haynes, Sr.
again who was James Earl Ray's first defense counsel.  Now
obviously evidenciary tributaries running between the
assassinations of John Kennedy and Martin Luther King such as those
do not automatically prove that both assassinations were the
results of the activities of the same forces.  There are such
things as coincidences and some of the evidenciary tributaries
connecting our political assassinations may be just that.  They may
be coincidental.  Yet, at the same time, I think you would have to
be an idiot to assume that all of them are coincidental.

The last attorney for James Earl Ray, at least as of this time, 
is to my way of thinking the most interesting of all and that was 
an individual named Mark Lane, who has become very well known for 
his supposed investigations into assassinations.   Now Mark Lane 
has written about the assassinations of John Kennedy and Martin 
Luther King and he has correctly linked both with the U.S. 
intelligence operate, however, he has also refused to go as far 
into either investigation as the public record itself already 
reveals.  Why Mark Lane chooses to pull punches remains a matter 
of conjecture but it should be noted that Mark Lane has stopped 
far short in his various books, and *Rush to Judgement*, by the 
way, his first book on the John Kennedy assassination, is one of 
the better early Warren Commission critiques, but Mark Lane 
himself has stopped far short of the public record, what can be 
reliably placed on the public record in his writings about the 
assassinations of both John Kennedy and Martin Luther King.  
Significantly, Mark Lane became, eventually, an attorney for the 
Liberty Lobby.  The Liberty Lobby is an explicitly anti-semitic 
{1} and pro-Nazi right wing organization in this country, best 
known for publishing a newspaper which, disturbingly at least to 
me, is growing in popularity.  That newspaper is called "The 
Spotlight", and if you haven't come across it yet, you will 
probably will at some point in the not-too-distant future.  "The 
Spotlight" does publish some good articles, which is disturbing 
because some of the good reportage in "The Spotlight" is then 
juxtaposed alongside "No Holocaust" theory and other original, if 
not terribly substantive, journalistic and historical viewpoints, 
and I am afraid it may give some of those viewpoints historical 
credibility as a result.

The founder of the Liberty Lobby is a fellow named Willis Carto,
who has been quite explicit about the fact that not only did
the Holocaust not happen, but that the United States was on the
wrong side in World War II.  And it was Mark Lane who was among the
defense counsels for the Liberty Lobby.  Interestingly enough, at
the same time that Mark Lane was representing James Earl Ray, he
also was the attorney representing "The People's Temple" of the
Reverend Jim Jones.

Now the People's Temple appears to have been a U.S. intelligence
operation.  There are a number of indications concerning that, as
ridiculous as that will seem to some people, I refer interested
listeners to Radio Free America programs #6, Radio Free America #7. 
RFA #8 also talks about some of the connections that I am going to
be detailing this evening.  I also refer listeners to a
miscellaneous archive show dealing with Dan White, Jonestown, and
the Mosconi-Milk killings.

                     [...to be continued...]

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} Regarding Emory's claim that *The Spotlight* is anti-semitic: 
it seems to me that people often confuse being critical of Israel 
with being anti-semitic. As a regular reader of *The Spotlight*, 
I do not recall ever reading anti-semitic articles. This also 
goes for Emory's claim that *The Spotlight* is pro-Nazi: I 
personally find this particular claim to be questionable.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

