

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 76
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

U.S. PREPARATIONS FOR MARTIAL LAW
Transcript of a talk given by officer Jack McLamb (retired) of 
the Phoenix Police Department.

Biographical note: Officer McLamb was one of the most highly 
decorated members (if not *the* most highly decorated) of the 
Phoenix Police Department. Besides many acts of heroism, officer 
McLamb is also the originator of the "Officer Friendly" program, 
a program in which police officers visit school children to help 
them be better acquainted with the police. Officer McLamb was 
disabled in the line of duty and is now retired from the Phoenix 
Police Department. He currently hosts a radio show which can be 
heard Monday through Friday, 7 pm cst, on WWCR, 5.810 mHz 
shortwave.

JACK MCLAMB:
But at the Colorado meeting, in June, we had about 500 people. We 
had the sheriff sitting on the front row with a couple of his 
deputies. We had a national guardsman sitting beside him. And the 
meeting went very well. For an hour I talked, and I forgot to say 
"thank you" to the police officers for coming.

So I waited until the end of the meeting, and then it hit me: I 
didn't thank the police officers. And so I said, "Oh! We want to 
take a moment to thank all of you officers in the audience, that 
are here off-duty, for coming to the meeting. And we'd like you 
to stand up so we can give you a round of applause and show you 
how much we love you and appreciate you."

Well a lot of the officers stood up and we applauded for them. 
And then I said (and I do this at every meeting, but this is a 
first: what I'm about to tell you about), I said, "Now the 
undercover officers that are here," (and we have some here 
today), I said, "we love you being here. We wish you'd tell your 
boss when you go home that you need 10 times as many undercover 
officers back here. Because you guys are trapped. You have to 
stay through the whole thing. The other officers can get up and 
leave, but you're here on assignment. You've gotta record 
everything. You've gotta report back. So we've got you for the 
whole meeting. And that's why we love you to be here!" And I 
said, "And I want to show you how much we love you. We want the 
undercover agents to stand up so we can show you how much we love 
you."

And it's totally quiet, right? And all of a sudden, two guys in 
business suits stand up, on each side of the aisle, hang their 
head like this, and the meeting just broke up. Everybody just 
clapping and howling and whistling. [laughs]

But you see, that's the thing. If we can just get these officers 
in our meetings to find out that we are not the enemy of America; 
that we are actually the salvation of America -- and that is, 
God's people turning back to him and turning back to the 
foundation of our nation. That God gave us this nation. Then we 
are actually the remnant, here, that can cause the recovery! And 
we've gotta get the officers in the meetings, don't we? And the 
military people and the police officers, federal, state and 
local, or they can't find out who we are and what we're all 
about!

So anyway, that was very exciting. Another very exciting thing 
[that] happened was, we attended, for the first time this year, 
and had a booth, at the National Sheriffs Convention, the annual 
convention, in Salt Lake City. And we were able to put literature 
in the hands of thousands of sheriffs around this country. And we 
had a tremendously successful meeting, sharing this type of 
information with all the sheriffs we could reach within 3 days, 
at the National Sheriffs Convention.

I'm telling you this because I want you to feel what is happening 
today, and how successful we're becoming in reaching these very 
dedicated, proud, honorable and patriotic Americans in uniform: 
the military, and also the police officers. [applause]

I'd better put my disclaimer in here. You see me standing here in 
a police uniform. Well I'm retired, now, from the Phoenix Police 
Department. After they tried to retire me twice, I finally had to 
take a medical retirement because of injuries suffered in the 
line of duty. And so I'm wearing this uniform for 2 reasons: I 
loved wearing this uniform. I was very proud to wear this 
uniform. And also I'm wearing this uniform because they told me I 
could not. [laughter] And I paid for it myself, so...

All right. Well, so, I'm gonna read you a couple quotes, for the 
new people in the audience, because I want you to understand: 
When you hear about President Rodham's new program -- er, I mean 
Clinton. I'm sorry. -- for this New "Utopian" World Order... And 
you heard President Bush talk about the New World Order. I want 
you to understand what we're talking about here.

So here's a couple quotes from people -- you'll recognize their 
names. And it's coming from Operation Vampire Killer 2000, the 
manual that was put together for police officers to help stop 
this new world government rule. And here's what we hit the 
officers with on the first few pages. We quote two Prime 
Ministers of England.

O.K. Benjamin Disraeli, 1844, he made this statement. He was a 
Prime Minister of England, and he said, "The world is governed by 
very different personages from what is imagined; by those who are 
behind the scenes." 1844. Think about that, how long ago that 
was.

Winston Churchill, Prime Minister of England, stated in 1922, he 
says, "From the days of Spartacus Wieskoff(?), Karl Marx, 
Trotsky, Bella Kuhn(?), Rosen Luxemborg(?) and Emma Goldman, this 
world conspiracy..." -- Now who used that word, that the media 
laughs about all the time and pooh-poohs all the time? Listen to 
this: Winston Churchill used the word "conspiracy". He says, 
"...this world conspiracy has been steadily growing. This 
conspiracy played a definite, recognizable role in the tragedy of 
the French Revolution. It has been the mainspring of every 
subversive movement during the 19th century. And now, at last, 
this band of extraordinary personalities from the underworld of 
the great cities of Europe and America have gripped the Russian 
people by the hairs of their head and have become the undisputed 
masters of that enormous empire."

You see how much he told us in just one paragraph here? He knew 
about the conspiracy, in 1922, to rule the world. He also tells 
us -- which is true -- that the 1917 revolt, the Bolshevik 
revolution, was indeed part of the conspiracy, and it was well 
planned by people in America and in Europe! In other words, the 
communist government was built up for a reason by Americans -- 
American internationalists and European internationalists. That's 
what Winston Churchill told us.

Now listen to this: One of our Supreme Court justices, Felix 
Frankfurter, said, "The real rulers in Washington are invisible 
and exercise power from behind the scene."

John Hyland(?), mayor of New York in 1825, said, "The real menace 
to our Republic is the invisible government which like a giant 
octopus has spread its slimy legs over our cities, states, and 
nation."

I could go on. Franklin Delano Roosevelt -- now there's many, 
many quotes in here. I'll end with Franklin Delano Roosevelt. He 
said, in a letter to Colonel E. Mandell House in 1933 -- and this 
is in the [National] Archives, this letter to E. Mandell House -- 
he says, "The real truth of the matter is, as you and I know, 
that a financial element in the large centers has owned the 
government of the United States since the days of Andrew 
Jackson."

Now. So for any of you sitting in this audience, thinking this is 
not for real and we do not have a serious problem in the United 
States with conspirators that were named by Presidents, Prime 
Ministers, Supreme Court justices, and many others in this manual 
-- you're wrong! Because it's real, and we are fighting a real 
enemy. We're not fighting at windmills and ghosts and things like 
that, like the media today tries to make you think we are.

So that's important. I like to start out this way, because we 
have new police officers, new soldiers, and we have new private 
citizens here that really come into these meetings and they don't 
know what we're about and what we're doing.

                     [...to be continued...]

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

