

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 33
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

ASSASSINATION AS A TOOL OF FASCISM
----------------------------------

(...continued...)

JOHN JUDGE: [...continues...] When Gehlen finished setting up the 
CIA here, he went back to Germany and helped set up the postwar 
German, NATO, and French Intelligence structures that rule the 
reactionary politics in those countries and in Europe today, and 
that command our constant military presence there. Forty years 
after the war's supposed to be over.

He was replaced in large part, at that point, by Otto von 
Bolshwing. Otto Albrecht von Bolshwing, who had been Adolph 
Eichmann's superior at the Hebrew desk for the movement of the 
Jews and the Final Solution and the killing and the planning. But 
he was never tried in Nazi Germany. He was just allowed to slip 
through the cracks, like many of them, and ended up here, in the 
United States. He helped form a corporation called TCI, with 
Edwin Wilson, Helena von Damm, and with other people connected to 
the intelligence agencies, as one of many front companies out 
here in California. When it went bankrupt, it sold its largest 
subsidiary to Albert Hakim and Richard Secord. And that 
subsidiary became Stanford Technology Trading Group, and Trading 
Group International. These were their fronts, during that time.

And the financing, if you remember, of [Oliver] North's 
operation, was through Credit Suisse. Well Credit Suisse was set 
up as a bank, in the 1940s, as the funnel and conduit for 
Permindex. It was the banking firm to take care of Permindex's 
international operations.

And just recently, when I was reading *Tennessee Waltz* by James 
Earl Ray {1}, where he names the person in Canada that introduced 
him to the mysterious character Raoul {2}, who set him up as the 
patsy. He says that that's a person named David Gravier. Well 
David Gravier is an international financier, connected to 
American Banking and Trust, which itself is a major subsidiary of 
guess who? Credit Suisse. Where did he [Ray] meet him [Raoul]? In 
Canada, where Permindex was located. See, so you'll find the 
connections going back to certain firms, certain cover.

The current world cover for the training of these assassins, I 
believe, is an evangelical right-wing organization known as World 
Vision. Among its employees at the Fort Chaffee Refugee Camp it 
was running for Laotian, Thai, and Vietnamese refugees was a 
young man named Mark David Chapman -- responsible for the death 
of a very political musician who could have brought a million 
people out in response to Reagan's war efforts in a single day, 
named John Lennon.

Mark David Chapman had military training. He was in Beirut, 
interestingly enough, when military training was going on there 
by Wilson and Terpil. And he moved to Hawaii, worked for the 
large military firms. You'll remember he took a military stance 
at the time. The chairman of the board in those days of World 
Vision was none other than John Hinckley, Sr. The funding for 
World Vision was, primarily, during the Vietnam period, CIA 
directly funding it. They now still admit 5% coming through 
USAID, which was the cover. And they operated in all of Southeast 
Asia, collecting information on Laotians, Cambodians and others 
under the cover of this missionary work. They were in charge of 
the refugee camps at Sabra and Shatilla when the Fascist Phalange 
came in and killed the Palestinians. They are in charge of the 
refugee camps, along the Honduran border, for the Central 
Americans, where the Contras are allowed to go in and actively 
recruit. They run the physical operation in the camps for the 
Cuban and Haitian refugees here in the United States. And it was 
at those camps, you remember, there were riots. Well part of what 
started that riots was that they brought into those camps a 
political education program that if you didn't attend, you didn't 
eat. And the people that ran that program for the Cubans were 
none other than Alpha-66 and Omega-7, the Cuban reactionaries 
left over from the Bay of Pigs invasion.

And, these international refugee communities they started in the 
'50s (I went back to their earliest populations) were really just 
attempts to manipulate people that were in Communist countries 
who were reactionary and were running from the situations or the 
changes in those countries. Refugee populations are expendable; 
they're manipulable. Part of the history of Jonestown is the 
history of refugees, 'cause a lot of the reason they went to 
Matthew's Ridge is that they wanted cheap labor there.

But I found the same names cropping up, the same *modus 
operandi*, the same monies, (and I've only named a few of them), 
throughout not only the major assassinations (the Kennedys, 
Martin Luther King, the Chappaquidik incident, where Ted Kennedy 
was set up and Mary Jo [Kopechne(?)] was killed, the murder of 
Jessica Savitch, a number of these situations I've worked on), 
but also many of the witnesses that died (75 strange witness 
deaths in John Kennedy case, 80 each, or around that, each, in 
both Martin Luther King and the Robert Kennedy, another 35-40 
strange deaths connected with Watergate, the Second House Select 
Committee on Assassinations) {3}. And a lot of the people that we 
knew were involved in the original research started to drop dead. 
There's people dropping dead now, during the Contragate 
investigation. It's a constant pattern: the witnesses are wiped 
out.

And when you go into the specifics: who did they know, or where 
they were, who was around them, or who helped set them up, you 
will find, I believe, (if you do the work, and I encourage you to 
do it on the things that you're interested in) people that have 
connections to *Navy Intelligence*. That's the central place 
where these people operated from, on the command level. You'll 
find people otherwise involved in the U.S. Intelligence agencies. 
And you'll find people either with direct ties to Nazi Germany or 
with connections to *current* Fascist International networks that 
grew out of that period.

But those Nazis came here. They formed our foreign policy. 
There's a couple of new books out. If you haven't had a chance to 
see them, you should get them. This is by Bower, from a British 
publisher. It's called *The Paperclip Conspiracy*, and it's about 
the hunt for the Nazi scientists. There's an earlier book by 
Clarance Lasby, *Project Paperclip* that's very good, but these 
are recent ones, with some new information.

And this very good book by Chris Simpson. All these still miss 
pieces, or perspective, but this is called *Blowback*, which is 
an Intelligence term for negative effects from a covert 
operation; America's recruitment of Nazis and its effects on the 
Cold War.

All these things are available. It's not impossible to get this 
information. I think you need to focus a little bit.

What I'm suggesting is that there's this history of the Fascism 
moving; that assassination has been its long-term technique for 
certain political purposes; and that it's time you took a look 
around you. Because they are killing us. They're not killing all 
of us. But they're killing people not just at the top government 
levels, but all the way down to the activists and the people who 
are going to try to make a difference.

Which is *not* to me, again, an argument not to try to make a 
difference. Because they can't kill us all. Or if we don't do 
anything, they *will* kill us all. So you see, it's one or the 
other. But to me, there's really no choice.

If you stumble across Auschwitz in the 1940s, you're either going 
to go home, and be a "good German" and use the soap, or you're 
going to speak up. You see, you're going to speak up and you're 
going to have the horrible fate that Walter Rudolph didn't want. 
You're going to become one of the excess population; one of the 
*untermenschen*, one of the expendables.

But I'd suggest that, given the reality of the economy, that most 
of you here in the audience are that already. My obeisance to the 
FBI and CIA agents here; you probably have a good paycheck still. 
But I would think that most of you are not in such a secure 
position. And this economy is not so long for the world, in terms 
of taking care of everybody. If you haven't looked around you on 
the street lately, there's a depression out there, and that's 
what a depression looks like.

                        (to be continued)

[Transcript of a talk given by John Judge at a one-day conference 
entitled "The Fourth Reich in America." A transcript of the 
entire conference, "The Fourth Reich in America," is available 
from Flatland Books, P.O. Box 2420, Fort Bragg, CA  95437.]

--------------------------<< Notes >>----------------------------
{1} James Earl Ray was found guilty of the assassination of 
Martin Luther King, jr. There are many who doubt that Ray was, in 
fact, the assassin.
{2} James Earl Ray claimed to have received instructions for many 
of his actions from a shadowy figure known only to him as 
"Raoul."
{3} Also worth noting at this juncture, the Clinton Body Count; 
i.e., "suicides" and violent deaths of persons connected to Bill 
Clinton.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

