

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 82
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

U.S. PREPARATIONS FOR MARTIAL LAW
Transcript of a talk given by officer Jack McLamb (retired) of 
the Phoenix Police Department.

Biographical note: Officer McLamb was one of the most highly 
decorated members (if not *the* most highly decorated) of the 
Phoenix Police Department. Besides many acts of heroism, officer 
McLamb is also the originator of the "Officer Friendly" program, 
a program in which police officers visit school children to help 
them be better acquainted with the police. Officer McLamb was 
disabled in the line of duty and is now retired from the Phoenix 
Police Department. He currently hosts a radio show which can be 
heard Monday through Friday, 7 pm cst, on WWCR, 5.810 mHz 
shortwave.

[...continued...]

JACK MCLAMB:
The uh, in controlling the American people by getting them to 
give up their Bill of Rights, they had to use a system that Dr. 
Stewart Crane, who's been a patriot for many years... for 30 
years, Dr. Stewart Crane. Some of you probably have heard of him 
because of his patriotic activity. One of the most brilliant men 
in our nation, he had three Ph.D's: In history, and political 
science, and I forgot what the other one was. He's been in and 
out of jail so many times over the last 20 years, you wouldn't 
believe it -- because of his stand against this Satanic, evil 
system that has gripped our nation and the government systems of 
the world.

And he made this statement about anarchy: "If you're going to 
take over the united States, and you want to get you and I to 
give up our Bill of Rights," (and like they talked about last 
night, give up our guns so the government can "protect" us), "how 
are you gonna do it?" Well Dr. Stewart Crane made this statement. 
I think it's very important you understand what he says about the 
word "anarchy".

Does everybody know what anarchy is? It's total fear of crime or 
something that causes the breakdown of society. Now what we have, 
in our country, doing it, is crime and drugs that Clinton and his 
minions say we need a national police force to take care of; to 
make us all "safe".

But Dr. Stewart Crane says this: "The use of anarchy, to come 
into dictatorial power, is as old as civilization itself. Anarchy 
is always used when a small minority wants to come into power 
over the majority." {1}. He says, "A result of successful anarchy 
is always a police state."

Now what is happening? Anarchy, crime, and drugs in the street is 
causing what in America? A police state. Officers, you know that 
and I know that and so does everybody else here.

But he says, "The result of a successful anarchy is *always* a 
police state." He says, "Russia, Germany, Italy, or the U.S. -- 
if the type of government is decided by violence and crime in the 
streets, an autocratic, ruthless dictatorship is inevitable, 
because the people will demand it."

Now what is being used to take away our Bill of Rights and to 
level us with the rest of the world? What makes us different than 
any other nation in the world? The Bill of Rights, basically! 
We've thrown God out of our government a *long* time ago. Now all 
we have left is the Bill of Rights. What other nation on the face 
of the earth has a right to free speech? A total right to free 
speech. A 2nd amendment where we have [the right] to keep arms. A 
4th amendment or a 5th amendment, all these things. Only the 
united States of America. So they *must* destroy the Bill of 
Rights.

But as professor Stewart Crane says, the way to do it is to get 
you to *want* to give it up. And how are they gonna do that? 
Anarchy in the streets. And it's working very, very successfully.

How do you create anarchy in the streets, now? Well, you've got 
to do what the dialectic, the Hegelian {2} dialect, said. And the 
Hegelian dialect was something that was conceived to cause you to 
do things you wouldn't do unless there was something serious 
happening in your community.

Here's the dialectic: The Hegelian principle is, revolutionaries 
in government have created economic chaos; shortages of food, 
fuel; confiscatory taxation; a crisis in education; and the 
threat of war, crime, and other divisions, to condition Americans 
for the New World Order. The technique is as old as politics 
itself. It is the Hegelic principle to bring about change in a 
three step process: the thesis, the antithesis, and the 
synthesis.

The first step, the thesis, is to create a problem. Crime. Let's 
use that as an example. Drugs. Illegal aliens coming in. Uh, the 
economy collapses as the illegal aliens come in. The economy gets 
worse. Whatever the problem is, you create it on purpose, O.K.? 
That is the thesis.

The antithesis is, to generate opposition to the problem. [CN -- 
The reaction to the problem.] Fear. Panic. Hysteria.

And then the synthesis is, to offer the solution to the problem 
created in step one!

Now what's the solution to the problem of crime and drugs in 
America, offered in step one? A national police force. You give 
up your Bill of Rights, and we're gonna "save" you from yourself. 
Isn't it wonderful that our government would do that for us?

Well, how did they create crime at the magnitude that we have it 
today? If you talk to Colonel "Bo" Gritz, if you talk to people 
on the right of the political spectrum, if you talk to people on 
the left of the political spectrum, you will find out that 
there's been much research, *much* research, and much 
documentation to the fact -- and I say *fact*, fellow police 
officers (We've got some female police officers here too. Thank 
you for coming.), -- but I'm telling you, I want you to hear 
this, I'm talking about *fact* that we can prove, we've got the 
evidence -- an evidentiary foundation that would stack as high as 
*I* am, the evidence, I've seen it -- that the U.S. government, 
certain factions in the U.S. government, have been involved in 
importing the majority of drugs in the united States since the 
'60s. Since 1960. We've got the evidence. We've got book after 
book, research document after research document. If you come by 
the table, I can give you some of this. I could give you a 
newsletter that we've talked about it, the police officers.

We have, folks, in the united States, a phony war on drugs. 
Because Richard Armitage(?), Theodore Shackley(?), and other 
people... Richard Armitage is now still in our federal 
government, very high up in the State Department. He served... He 
was in Vietnam importing the drugs for many, many years during 
the Vietnam war, from the "Golden Triangle". He now serves in 
the... Let's see. Reagan appointed him Secretary of State, uh no, 
assistant Secretary of Defense. And then Bush had to kind of make 
him go away for a short time. But now, Clinton's got him in the 
State Department running things! And these guys have been 
involved in bringing the majority of drugs into the united 
States. Why? To create a synthesis. Which means, to create a 
problem so that you will react differently than you would have 
had there been no problem.

The problem is drugs and crime in America. And what do they want 
you to do? What did Edwin Meese say in 1980? "I think the 
American people are ready to give up part of their Bill of Rights 
so that we can do something about the drug and crime problem."

                     [...to be continued...]

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} "The use of anarchy, to come into dictatorial power, is as 
old as civilization itself." Here's an example: The Reichstag 
fire, in the 1930s. The Nazis set fire to the Reichstag building, 
then they blamed it on the Jews, which in turn they used as 
justification for increased repression.

{2} "Hegelian": Derived from the ideas of the philosopher, Georg 
Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. (e.g. Hegel says this, the idea is from 
Hegel, the idea is Hegelian.)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

*Operation Vampire Killer 2000*, by Police Against the New World 
Order, $7.50 total cost includes shipping and handling. Write to 
Police Against the New World Order, P.O. Box 8712, Phoenix, AZ  
85066. Note: Police Against the New World Order is a non-profit 
group dedicated, among other things, to preserving our liberties.

Police Against the New World Order: Many of our nation's 
*internal protectors* know of the well-laid plan which will 
culminate before the year 2000, to usher the United States, along 
with the rest of the nations of the world, into a "utopian" 
global community allegedly under the control of a "philanthropic" 
United Nations. A great many of our fellow Officers and National 
Guardsmen are taking a stand against this plan because they 
realize that their fellow Americans were never allowed to know of 
this plan nor given the opportunity to vote on such a change in 
their government. In addition, the officers are concerned 
patriots and realize that this plan of world dominion is 
injurious in the extreme and a total fraud perpetrated against 
the people of the world.

*Operation Vampire Killer 2000* outlines *the plan* of Police 
Against the New World Order which they believe will stop this 
diabolical agenda.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

