

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 81
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

U.S. PREPARATIONS FOR MARTIAL LAW
Transcript of a talk given by officer Jack McLamb (retired) of 
the Phoenix Police Department.

Biographical note: Officer McLamb was one of the most highly 
decorated members (if not *the* most highly decorated) of the 
Phoenix Police Department. Besides many acts of heroism, officer 
McLamb is also the originator of the "Officer Friendly" program, 
a program in which police officers visit school children to help 
them be better acquainted with the police. Officer McLamb was 
disabled in the line of duty and is now retired from the Phoenix 
Police Department. He currently hosts a radio show which can be 
heard Monday through Friday, 7 pm cst, on WWCR, 5.810 mHz 
shortwave.

[...continued...]

JACK MCLAMB:
Now think of what the founding fathers said; what made America 
great. Now, if you're a conspirator and you're trying to look how 
you're gonna destroy this nation, and you now know the foundation 
of that nation is its spirituality, its belief in God and the 
principles in the Bible -- How are you gonna destroy America? The 
founders told you how to destroy it. You've got to get rid of 
God. And you've got to get rid of what God gave us to make our 
nation free: that's the Bill of Rights.

Now, we're coming to the drug and crime problem. Hold on, O.K.? 
All right.

So now we know that they now know how to destroy us; what they 
have to destroy. What is one of the first things that happened 
back early in this last century? Something called the 
evolutionary theory came out, did it not? And this theory swept 
throughout our nation like gangbusters. I'm tellin' you, it was 
in every school. When I went to school we were taught the 
evolutionary theory. (I went to school years ago. And some of you 
are older than I am, so you probably got caught up into this 
too.)

And I was one of those people that I was raised as a christian by 
a christian mother. And my family had taught the principles 
taught in the Bible. But when I saw the professors, and I saw the 
teachers, who told *me* they were much smarter than my mother -- 
I didn't have a dad growin' up -- and made me believe they were 
much smarter than her, and she had old and antiquated ideas, and 
I should learn what the "truth" was and believe in evolution, 
then I was caught up with that. And I got away from Scripture and 
I got away from the Bible. Because after all, my mother was not 
highly educated.

And these great men in these edifices built to man, the 
universities {1}, I looked to as my God at that time. And I said, 
"I've gotta look at these guys. And if they tell me that 'God is 
dead,' that 'God is not real. It's for people that are soft and 
people that are steeped in superstitions' and everything, this 
must be so."

Well thank God, when I was in the military during the Vietnam 
war, someone loved me enough to send me a book. And it proved to 
me, from a scientific basis, that evolution is not true at all.

You say, "Well how do you prove that? It can't be proved."

Yes it can. How many of you heard of Dr. Henry Morris? Raise your 
hand if you've heard of Dr. Henry Morris. He's one of the 
greatest blessings America's ever had. Because he was an atheist 
scientist, he was a world-known scientist, and he set out, years 
ago, some 30 years ago, to prove that creationism was not true. 
And after 2 years study, he became a born-again christian. He 
gave his heart to God. And he wrote a book called, *The Troubled 
Waters of Evolution*. And here it is. There's that book. That was 
the book I was given back when I was in the military; the very 
book. I've kept it. It's been around the world several times. 
I've given it away to many people and they've, thankfully, given 
it back to me.

But Dr. Henry Morris *proved*, and wrote his evidence in here to 
prove, creationism. And that little book will prove it to anybody 
that'll read. And of course, we're having less and less people in 
America that are *able* to read, nowadays, you know. But someone, 
one very intelligent man once said, "Those that will not read are 
no better off than those that cannot read." So if you've stopped 
reading, you're not going to have this educational material that 
you need in your life, and so you can pass it on to others.

*The Troubled Waters of Evolution*. I'll have this at my booth. 
Dr. Henry Morris started a group of scientists all around this 
world. He started a group called "The Creation Research Society" 
in San Diego. Years ago, at that time, they had 200 scientists 
that had studied his reports and studied his evidence and turned 
to God. And now there's over *thousands* of these scientists, 
world scientists, who have now turned back to God because they 
proved that evolution is a bunch of bunk and creationism has all 
the facts and evidence.

I'm bringing this up, see, because the government, this 
conspiracy, tried to destroy God in the minds of the American 
people. It tried to destroy the principles in which our country 
was based, which was the Bible and the Ten Commandments -- which 
gave us the Bill of Rights.

So we can recover the hearts and minds of those people like me 
that have been, have *lost* that, and caused our country to be 
levelled with many of the other nations of the world that were 
*not* based on the Bible and God's law.

There's a second part of the conspiracy, however. And it has to 
do with this same thing. If they're going to destroy God, they 
also have to have a "something else" for people to go into. Now a 
lot of people went into the evolutionary, atheist thought. But 
others, that were still spirit-filled, in some fashion, had to go 
somewhere else. So they created something called the "New Age" 
thought. The "New Age".

And this is, I think, worse than the political conspiracy. The 
spiritual conspiracy will destroy you faster. You can know all 
about the political conspiracy. You can understand everything 
about 1917 and how Jacob Schift(?) and others funded Trotsky to 
go take 200 street thugs in New York City to Russia and start the 
Bolshevik revolution. {2}. You can know all this political 
conspiracy and still lose your nation and the world, if you don't 
understand the spiritual conspiracy.

Now we just ordered some of these books through the American 
Citizen and Lawmen Association. This man, Dr. Randall Baird(?), 
published this book in 1989. He was one of the leaders of the New 
Age movement. And he explains about the spiritual conspiracy and 
how these conspirators at the very top are actually spiritual 
people. They're not atheists. Atheism is for those that they can 
convince, and drive away from God. They *have* their "God". They 
have their "God", and it's not the God that you and I believe in.

And so, this book is on our table. I think it's booth 304. We 
just got a shipment of them in. By the way, all of us police 
officers that work in the American Citizen and Lawmen 
Association, myself included, officer Rick Dalton, and all of us 
-- none of us make any money off all of this. We're not selling 
books to make any profit. We're selling books to save our nation. 
{3}. And to educate people [about] what's going on. *Don't* miss 
out on this book. It's called *Inside the New Age Nightmare*. Dr. 
Randall Baird published this book. It hit the stands on May 5th, 
1989. And that's an important date to remember: May 5th, 1989. He 
published this work after he was one of the three top leaders in 
the New Age movement around this nation. And on May 5th, 1989, he 
mysteriously drove off a cliff in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and died 
in a car crash the minute this hit the stand. The very day that 
this hit the stand. A very suspicious accident, and we just heard 
about it just months ago. And the American Citizen and Lawmen 
Association's gonna look into the death of Dr. Randall Baird. 
Because he's done a great service for the American people in 
exposing the number one conspiracy, that is actually *above* the 
political conspiracy, is the spiritual conspiracy.

All right. Now. We're going to take you now into *how*, once they 
have destroyed God, which was one of the foundations the nation 
was built on, how are they going to destroy the Bill of Rights? 
Well, they're going to destroy the Bill of Rights by creating 
fear in society. Now we're getting into the area of crime, and 
why we "need" a national police force. Because the American 
people are very fearful now.

                     [...to be continued...]

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} "...these edifices built to man, the universities." 
"Ozymandias", by Percy Bysshe Shelley:

    I met a traveller from an antique land
    Who said: "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
    Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand,
    Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown,
    And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,
    Tell that its sculptor well those passions read
    Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,
    The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed.
    And on the pedestal these words appear --

    'My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:
    Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!'

    Nothing beside remains. Round the decay
    Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare
    The lone and level sands stretch far away."

{2} "...200 street thugs in New York City to Russia and start the 
Bolshevik revolution." McLamb may mean here not *start*, but grab 
power. After the prolonged disaster (for the Russians, at least) 
of the First World War; after the subsequent uprising; several 
factions were contending for power. At that point, "200 street 
thugs" could very well have tipped the scales so as to favor a 
particular faction.

{3} As good a time as any to mention how to get a copy of 
*Operation Vampire Killer 2000* [OVK-2000]. McLamb recently (ca. 
August 8, 1994) offered both *OVK-2000* and a copy of the *Aid & 
Abet Police Newsletter* -- total cost $7.50. Write to *Aid & Abet 
Police Newsletter*, P.O. Box 8787, Phoenix, Arizona  85066. I 
ordered a copy and it took only 1 week from sending the letter 
until it arrived.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

