

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 92
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

Special thanks to Charles Lewton (clewton@eskimo.com) for 
transcribing the following lecture by Dave Emory.

THE ASSASSINATIONS OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. & MALCOLM X
(Part 3 of 4)


[...continued...]

Tape Two Side One

---It's worth noting too, that Malcolm was on the receiving end of
a number of hostile activities a few nights before he was
assassinated.  He was assassinated on February 21st of 1965.  About
a week before, maybe as much as eight or nine days before, his
home, Malcolm X's home in New York was firebombed.  Eye witnesses
saw a policeman walking into his house and the police later claimed
that Malcolm X firebombed his own home in an attempt to create the
notion that somebody was actively opposing him and a firebomb was
found, I believe it was on his wife's dresser, and the claim was
them bandied about by the authorities that Malcolm X had firebombed
his own home.  It is also worth noting that there appears to have
been a dress rehearsal of Malcolm X's assassination a few days
before he was actually assassinated.  In a rehearsal for an address
in New York City, there was a disturbance in the audience and a
fellow said "nigger, get your hand out of my pocket", and there was
then a scuffle and Malcolm X broke up the scuffle.  Nothing much
came of that.  Later on, however, those exact same words led to a
scuffle which appears to have been the cue to the assassins to open
fire on Malcolm X.  It is worth noting that John Ali was present at
this particular address in which what appears to have been a dress
rehearsal for Malcolm's assassination took place.

Now when Malcolm X was assassinated, he was giving a speech at the
Audubon Ballroom in New York City.  One of the interesting aspects
of his assassination was that all of the speakers who were
scheduled to appear at this event cancelled at the last minute. 
Malcolm X was there, but somehow it appears that the word got out
that this was not going to be a place to be.  But for whatever
reason, all of the scheduled speakers but Malcolm X cancelled the
day of his assassination.  Again, bear in mind that there was at
least one active BOSSI and FBI agent present on Malcolm's security
staff at the Audubon Ballroom, the aforementioned Gene Roberts or
Brother Gene, and that he was operating at the behest of Anthony
Ulazowitz (sp) and John Caulfield, later key Watergate operatives
on behalf of Richard Nixon, that they at the time were working with
the BOSSI, the New York City Anti-Organized Crime and Red Squad,
tabbed by Division Five of the FBI to work against both the Nation
of Islam and Malcolm X's Organization of Afro-American Unity.

Now in the audience when Malcolm got up to speak, there was this
same disturbance that had taken place a few days earlier.  A guy
said "Nigger, get your hand out of my pocket", and there was a
scuffle in the audience.  Malcolm said "Cool it brothers, cool it".
At that point, one of the two combatants pulled a German Luger out
of his pocket and began opening fire at Malcolm X.  Another man in
the audience pulled out a sawed-off shotgun and fired and struck
Malcolm X at virtually point-blank range.  The assassins then
exited out one of the side doors, firing at Malcolm X the whole
time and holding most of the audience at bay.  Malcolm's own
security people fired and wounded one of the assassins as they were
escaping.

Now that night there was a fire at Mosque Seven in Harlem, which
had been founded by Malcolm X and eventually the leadership of
Mosque Seven was taken over by Lewis X, as he was calling himself
at the time, now Lewis Farakhan, who incidentally had publically
called for Malcolm X's death following Malcolm's break with and
condemnation of Elijah Muhammed.  But the night Malcolm X was
assassinated, Mosque Seven had a very serious fire.  The same
evening, interestingly enough, there was a very mysterious fire at
the apartment of Muhammed Ali, the famed prize fighter, also
perhaps the best known member of the Nation of Islam and for a long
time a very close political supporter and personal friend of
Malcolm X.

The fire at Muhammed Ali's apartment was a rather strange one.  No
one knew that Muhammed Ali and his wife at the time were going to
be at this restaurant, yet they got a call at the restaurant
telling them that their apartment was on fire.  Many people have
raised questions about this.  It is also worth noting that within
a few days of Malcolm's assassination, of the mysterious fire at
the Mosque Seven, the mysterious fire at Muhammed Ali's apartment,
the law offices of Percy Sutton, a New York City councilperson,
actually, I believe, later a congressional representative, Percy
Sutton's law offices were vandalized a few days later and also the
New York offices of the Organization of Afro-American Unity,
Malcolm's organization, were vandalized a few days later.

It is worth noting again that Lewis Lomax, who had investigated the
assassinations of both Martin Luther King and Malcolm X, concluded
that the intelligence community was behind it.  He had, as I said,
landed a movie contract about the assassination of Malcolm X, which
implicated the intelligence community.  While driving to the set
one day, the brakes on his car failed and he was killed in an
accident.  He also, Lomax that is, was pursuing leads in Louisiana
which would have connected the assassination of Martin Luther King
with that of John F. Kennedy and specifically, he was looking into
the activities of the people surrounding the 544 Camp Street, 531
Lafayette Place address that was run as the Guy Bannister Detective
Agency.  Guy Bannister, former head of the FBI Chicago office, also
a former Office of Naval Intelligence operative, as accurately
portrayed in the movie "JFK".  In addition to operating on behalf
of the CIA's anti-Castro Cuban efforts, the Bannister Detective
Agency was also very active against the civil-rights movement and
they put out a racist publication called "Louisiana Intelligence
Digest" which maintained that the black civil-rights movement was
part of the international communist conspiracy.  Something that
both J. Edgar Hoover and Arthur Haines, Sr., James Earl Ray's first
attorney, were also advocating at this time and Louis Lomax had
developed some contacts in Louisiana and had been pursuing
evidenciary tributaries leading in the direction of Bannister and
company when he was killed in this one-car automobile accident.

A few days after Malcolm X was killed, one of his top aides in the
Organization of Afro-American Unity, a fellow named Leon 4X Ameer, 
(by the way, the Xs in the names of the Nation of Islam, the Black
Muslims, as they are popularly referred to, that reference, and you
will see, you know, John 23X, Louis 14X, and so forth.  When an
African-American joined the organization, he traditionally retained
his first name, X was put, basically, in place of his last name to
indicate that this was a slave name and that at some point, he had
a different name, but that this had become lost to history and
depending on when you joined the organization, that determined the
number before your "X".  For example, if you were the fifth member
of the Nation of Islam named John, you were John 5X.  If you were
the 14th named Louis, you were Louis 14X, etc.  That is what those
Xs refer to).

But one of Malcolm's top aides, Leon 4X Ameer, went to the FBI,
about, I think it was ten days after Malcolm was killed, and
indicated that he felt that there were elements not only within the
Nation of Islam proper, but within the US government that were
behind Malcolm's assassination.  He then was found dead, himself,
a few days later at the age of 32 in his apartment in Boston. 
Initially, they said it was suicide, then they changed that to a
drug overdose, but the final disposition of the case was that he
died of natural causes, despite the fact that he was in good health
at the age of 32.  It is worth noting that Ameer took his wife and
child and relocated them from Boston prior to his death, because he
felt that his life was in danger and he did not want his wife and
child to die if and when the assassins came for him.  That is still
the official version of the death of Leon Ameer, namely, natural
causes at the age of 32 within ten days of (actually it was about
a week) having visited the FBI and voiced his suspicions about U.S.
governmental involvement in the assassination of Malcolm X.

It is worth noting that the Socialist Workers Party, elements of
which had been very close to the Nation of Islam, were also the
targets of COINTELPRO disruption at this time, and that freedom of
information act documents that have been declassified in the
interim, have revealed that in no uncertain terms, the friction
that grew between the Socialist Workers Party and the Nation of
Islam, and in particular, the Organization of Afro-American Unity,
were as the result of agitation by the FBI.

James Chabaz (sp), who was Malcolm X's successor, in the
Organization of Afro-American Unity, was himself assassinated a few
years after Malcolm X.  And it is worth noting that one of Elijah
Muhammed's sons was arrested and convicted on a drug charge.  This
officially discredited him and for a period of time, the most
powerful man in the Nation of Islam became John Ali, who was,
again, a documented FBI informant.  It is also worth noting that
John Ali was around many of the areas where Malcolm X was prior to
his assassination.  Malcolm was going to disembark, for example, at
the Los Angeles airport.  Some of his security people noted that
John Ali was present when Malcolm X was going to land at the Los
Angeles airport.  Because of his stated hostility to Malcolm X,
this was after Malcolm's break with Elijah Muhammed, the plane of
Malcolm X was rerouted to another terminal and law enforcement was
alerted.  Again, John Ali was physically present at this what
appears to have been a dress rehearsal for Malcolm X's
assassination.

Oh, another detail that I forgot, concerning the circumstances of
Malcolm's death, the Audubon Ballroom where he was killed, is
directly across the street from Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in
New York City, one of the finest medical institutions in the city. 
The hospital was called and they were asked to rush medical
assistance over to Malcolm X, who was only across the street and no
medical assistance was forthcoming.  It took a long time and
finally, Malcolm's aides got a stretcher from the hospital and put
him on it and carried him over to the hospital.  But that is again
among the strange circumstances surrounding his assassination, was
that for some reason, the people at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital
were unable to dispatch an emergency unit across the street.  It
was so bad that his aides went across the street, got a stretcher,
and wheeled him across the street to the hospital.  The hospital
proffered no assistance whatsoever.

Now again, after one of Elijah Muhammed's sons was arrested and
convicted on a drug charge, John Ali, documented FBI informant,
became the most powerful member of the Nation of Islam.  Eventually
the organization was taken over by Wallace Muhammed, another of
Elijah Muhammed's sons, who promptly undertook to reform the
organization along the lines that Malcolm X, himself, had
advocated.  In the first place, Wallace Muhammed lifted the edict
against black-white political cooperation, one of the main sources
of the break between Malcolm and Elijah Muhammed.

He, that is to say, Wallace Muhammed, also changed the ideology and
the theology of the Nation of Islam.  One of the aspects of the
Nation of Islam's philosophy or political viewpoint, which had also
alienated Malcolm X, was the explicit doctrine of the Nation of
Islam that the white race was created by a mad scientist named
Yakob (sp).  That was an official element of their doctrine.  That
obviously worked to the disadvantage of black people and actually
worked to the advantage of people like the Aryan Nations, part of
whose racist ideology is that black people are genetically and
intellectually inferior to white people.  The tenet of the Nation
of Islam that the white race was created by a mad scientist named
Yakob (sp), in my opinion, was very much to the liking of people
like Robert Miles and Tom Metzger and George Lincoln Rockwell and
H.L. Hunt, because it would tend to discredit black people
intellectually.  That was one of the things that Wallace Muhammed
dispensed of when he took over the leadership of the Nation of
Islam.  And no sooner did Wallace Muhammed put these reforms into
effect than Lewis Farakhan, as he was calling himself then,
formally Lewis X, head of the Boston Mosque of the Nation of Islam,
who had publically called for Malcolm X's death as a result of his
hostility or his opposition to Elijah Muhammed, who eventually
succeeded Malcolm X as the head of Mosque Seven, who was reportedly
in the Newark, New Jersey mosque at the time of Malcolm's
assassination.  At least one of the convicted assassins has stated
that the assassination of Malcolm was planned at the Newark mosque
and some of the people convicted were security people from the
Newark mosque.

Lewis Farakhan broke away from Wallace Muhammed and set up his own
organization, the Nation of Islam, which he is the head of to this
day.  He then reinstated the prohibition on black-white political
cooperation, which was one of the things Malcolm X broke with
Elijah Muhammed over, he reinstated the preposterous tenet that the
white race was created by in a laboratory by a mad scientist named
Yakob (sp), another of the things that Malcolm X opposed.  And
apparently, the opposition on the part of Farakhan and his
organization to black-white political cooperation did not apply to
cooperation between himself and his organization and a doctrinaire
white supremacist like Tom Metzger and Robert Miles.  Make of that
what you will.

We will talk about Jesse Jackson in a couple of minutes, but it is
worth noting too that Lewis Farakhan has been very active in
promoting dissension in the progressive political community.  He
has achieved a lot of publicity in connection with some of his
statements about Jews and Judaism.  Traditionally, blacks and Jews
have been two of the pillars of the progressive political community
in the United States.  There is now a great deal of friction
between them, although some of that undoubtedly applies to Israeli
support for, or is justified by and stems from, Israeli support for
South Africa.  At the same time, I suspect that a lot of that is
being actively promoted by the forces of reaction in this country,
who would like nothing better than to see blacks and Jews going
after one another, because divide and conquer is an old, tried and
true tactic.

It is worth noting, too, just as there are questions concerning
Lewis Farakhan and his succession of Malcolm X, and it is
interesting that it was not Wallace Muhammed who revised the Nation
of Islam, and reformed it along the lines advocated by Malcolm X,
but it is Lewis Farakhan, who again called for the Malcolm X's
death, and who then broke from Wallace Muhammed when he put into
effect reforms advocated my Malcolm, he is now the individual who
wears Malcolm X's mantle.  He also is an individual who has been
actively collaborating with some of the white-supremacist elements
that Malcolm had devoted his life to working against.

There are similar question about Jesse Jackson and the
assassination of Martin Luther King as well.  Jesse Jackson drew a
lot of fire, or a lot of flak, I should say.  I should watch my use
of words under the circumstances, but Jesse Jackson drew a lot of
flak from the people surrounding Martin Luther King for his
behavior around the time of Martin Luther King's assassination.  It
is a matter of public record that Martin Luther King was at least
considering breaking with Jesse Jackson.  Martin made a number of
statements to some of his aides that "he felt it was time for him
to make his mark and Jesse to make his own mark" then when Martin
Luther King was assassinated, Jesse Jackson showed up at a press
conference shortly afterward with a bloodied shirt and claimed that
he had cradled the dying Dr. King's head and this was one of the
things that boosted Jesse into the public eye.  Many of Martin's
close associates were outraged over what they viewed as
self-aggrandizement and exploitation of Martin's death by Jesse
Jackson and they claim that, in fact, Jesse Jackson was not
cradling the dying Dr. King's head at all.  Later, after years of
hostility between people like Coretta King, who as late as 1984,
was unwilling to endorse Jesse Jackson for president, Jesse
admitted this on the Phil Donahue show, on a national television
audience, that he had been lying for 20 years about his behavior
vis-a-vis the assassination of Martin Luther King.

I had always wondered how Jesse Jackson got that bloodied shirt,
because if he was not cradling King's head, and he later eventually
admitted that he had been lying about that, where did he get the
bloody shirt?  It indicates at least the possibility of
foreknowledge.  The question is whose blood or the blood of what
was on that shirt and where did Jesse get it?  Now, on the Phil
Donahue show, Jesse admitted that he had been lying, that he had
not actually cradled the dying Dr. King's head, but he said there
was so much blood where Dr. King fell that this was how he got the
blood on his shirt.  Well, there was certainly a lot of blood on
the ground where Dr. King was lying.  There also would  have been
some blood on the back wall where the round penetrated Dr. King's
head, but there would not have blood all over the apartment and
again one wonders how Jesse Jackson came up with that bloody shirt. 
Beyond that, regardless of how he actually came up with the shirt,
the fact that he would lie for twenty years about his behavior vis-
a-vis the assassination of the man whose mantle he now wears, and
you take a look at anything that comes up in the news concerning
black people in this country or just about anyplace else in the
world, and you see how long it takes for Jesse Jackson to appear in
the camera.  Jesse is a real good guy at garnering publicity.  He
is almost ubiquitous, but the fact that Jesse would lie for twenty
years, to me, disqualifies him as any kind of political leader. 
Beyond that, and even more alarmingly, aside from the fact that he
admitted that he lied about cradling King's head, shortly after
George Bush was elected in 1988, after having run his campaign
along explicitly racist lines with the Willy Horton ploy, Jesse and
George Bush gave a press conference in which they agreed to, George
challenged him, he said we've worked together on a number of policy
issues in the past and he challenged Jesse to deny that and Jesse
did not deny it then both Jesse and George Bush stated that they
felt that James Earl Ray should not be paroled.  Well, Jesse has
been quite vocal in other contexts about hardly his opinion that
there was more to the assassination of Martin Luther King than just
some lone racist, and yet he at a press conference with George
Bush, former director of the CIA and president-elect, he stated
that he was opposed to releasing James Earl Ray.  That also raises
some very, very serious questions about Jesse Jackson.  Jesse also
has made some comments which have tended to promote friction
between the black and Jewish communities in this country.  Whatever
Jesse's intention, that certainly works to the benefit of the
forces of reaction.  It should be noted that when a coup d'etat is
staged, in the viewpoint of the coup plotters, it is not only
necessary to destroy the target, but to replace the target with a
substitute whose political interests are at one with one's own. 
Now in this case, in this context I should say, we can view the
assassinations of both Malcolm X and Martin Luther King as, in
effect, a coup d'etat.  In effect, a blow at a nation within a
nation, namely the black community in the United States, and with
such a coup having apparently been executed, it would have been
essential to replace the two target individuals, namely Martin
Luther King and Malcolm X, with individuals whose viewpoints and
activities would be suitable to the people who had staged the coup. 
Although we do not have definitive information, and I do not mean
the things that I am saying to be viewed as definitive about either
Jesse Jackson or Lewis Farakhan, at the same time, there are enough
questions about the activities of both men to lead to a serious
investigation as to whether or not Lewis Farakhan was perhaps
designated as the LBJ to Malcolm X's JFK and that Jesse Jackson may
very well have been tabbed as a similar successor to Martin Luther
King as well.

There is an odd postscript to the assassinations of both Martin
Luther King and Malcolm X.  A few days, in fact four days, after
Malcolm X was assassinated, that was February 21st, 1965, there was
an abortive attempt to assassinate Martin Luther King as well. 
Martin Luther King was attending a movie in Los Angeles and police
received a tip and they discovered a large dynamite bomb at the
theater, which had it gone off, would have certainly killed Dr.
King and virtually anyone else in that theater.  Eventually an
American neo-Nazi named Keith Gilbert, was convicted of this
assassination attempt on Martin Luther King.  Gilbert maintained
that while in prison, he was receiving support from very powerful
forces.  It later came to light that he was receiving money and
that the individual he was receiving money from was a fellow named
Loren Eugene Hall, himself a paramilitary white right-winger and
white-supremacist who had been one of the main informants for then
Reagan legal-counselor Edwin Meese concerning the case of Edgar
Eugene Bradley.  Edgar Eugene Bradley was sought by Jim Garrison in
New Orleans in connection with the assassination of John F.
Kennedy.  Edgar Eugene Bradley was a resident of the state of
California.  Garrison filed an extradition request, then deputy
state attorney general Charles A. O'Brien (sp) reviewed the
Garrison extradition request, recommended that it be granted. 
Activity on the Garrison extradition request for Bradley was
delayed by then-governor Reagan until after Richard Nixon was
elected president and then was turned down without comment.  The
Edgar Eugene Bradley extradition request was handled for Reagan by
then Reagan legal advisor, legal counsellor Edwin A. Meese, who
later, of course, became attorney general of the United States and
who also was a highly ranked intelligence officer with the Army
reserve, both then and now.

The guy who Ed Meese dealt with primarily was a former CIA
operative in connection with the anti-Castro Cuban activities and
a white-supremacist named Loren Eugene Hall, who in 1989
incidentally, was indicted for running a methamphetamine ring in
Oklahoma.  His son, Loren, Jr., who was also indicted and named in
the indictment, stated at a press conference that the entire
methamphetamine ring was being used to channel funding to the
contras.  That, by the way, from the Dallas Morning News of
September 13th of 1989.  It was this guy who was providing
financial support to Keith Gilbert while he was in prison for
having placed this huge dynamite bomb in an L.A. theater four days
after Malcolm X was assassinated in New York.  Now Keith Gilbert
eventually became one of the top lieutenants for Richard Gernt (sp)
Butler, the head of the Aryan Nations compound at Hayden Lake,
Idaho.  Later Keith Gilbert broke with Butler and established his
own compound a few miles down the road.

Interesting enough, Keith Gilbert was linked to a fellow named
Michael Wayne.  Michael Wayne's name came up in connection with the
assassination of Robert Kennedy in Los Angeles.  A Michael Wayne
was known to have been at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles,
asking what route senator Kennedy was going to take to exit from
his press conference.  Michael Wayne was also a very, very close,
not a double, but he resembled very closely Sirhan Sirhan, the
patsy in the Robert Kennedy assassination.  The individual
generally cited by most investigators as actually having pulled the
trigger on Robert Kennedy was a white supremacist named Thane
Eugene Caesar who worked for Lockheed's Burbank facility, and
specifically worked in the top secret area associated with the
CIA's U-2 project.  Oswald also was affiliated with the U-2. 
Caesar was working as a security guard for a security service in
the Ambassador Hotel the night of the shooting.  He was a
documented white-supremacist and, again, he worked in the Lockheed
Burbank facility and another engineer in Lockheed Burbank was
Richard Gernt Butler, one of whose top lieutenants was Keith
Gilbert, whose name was linked in L.A.P.D. files to Michael Wayne,
a Sirhan double, who was in the Ambassador Hotel.  And again, it
was Keith Gilbert who was convicted of this attempt on the life of
Martin Luther King four days after Malcolm was killed.  Not that
that necessarily proves anything, but when you take those
coincidences in combination with the enormous number of evidenciary
tributaries linking various aspects of our assassinations and
political assassinations, it is pretty clear that this is more than
just coincidence, and I personally have always felt that the Keith
Gilbert-Richard Gernt Butler-Thane Eugene Caesar, Malcolm X
assassination-Martin Luther King assassination-Robert Kennedy
assassination link has never been properly investigated.  

It is also worth noting that the people who brought the Sirhan
family into the United States were college friends and political
associates of Richard Nixon, who was a prime beneficiary of the
assassination of Robert Kennedy and the director for security for
Richard Nixon's 1968 campaign was a fellow named James Golden, who
was on leave from his position as director of security for the
Lockheed Corporation, at which Thane Eugene Caesar was employed. 
And again, that does not prove anything either, but when you
examine this country's political assassinations, be it the
assassinations of the Kennedys or Martin Luther King, or Malcolm X,
Incidentally there is an echo which comes forward right to this
day.  One of the main civil rights leaders of the early '60s,
Medgar Evers (sp) the field secretary for the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People, he was assassinated in 1963,
a few months before Kennedy was assassinated.  A white-supremacist
named Byron de La Beckwith (sp) has been indicted for his
assassination and is going to stand trial.  He has been able to
wiggle out of this so far.  When Byron de La Beckwith was seeking
to avoid indictment for the assassination of Medgar Evers, much of
his political support came from former Major General Edwin Walker. 
Edwin Walker had been a divisional commander in Germany and was
replaced by John Kennedy because Edwin Walker was violating Army
regulations by obliging his troops to study the "Blue Book" of the
John Birch Society.  It is a violation of U.S. military regulations
to force your troops to study political doctrine.  Edwin Walker was
fired by John Kennedy.  He then came to the Dallas-Ft. Worth area
where he became a protege of H.L. Hunt and in the fifth volume of
the 26 volumes of Warren Commission testimony and exhibits, it is
revealed, or it is documented that, Edwin Walker's John Birch
Society cell was used as a vehicle for bringing military
intelligence agents over from Munich, Germany to operate at the
field level in the assassination of John Kennedy.

It is also worth noting, too, that one of the things cited by the
Warren Commission to prove that Lee Harvey Oswald was not a
politically-motivated assassin, (he wasn't an assassin at all, he
was a patsy) but the Warren Commission stated that Lee Harvey
Oswald had previously tried to assassinate Major General Edwin
Walker, who was an ultra-right winger.  Therefore, since he tried
to shoot a right-winger and he wound up shooting a liberal, he was
not politically motivated.  

This information first surfaced, according to the Warren Commission
investigation or cover-up, on December 3rd 1963, when Marina Oswald
revealed this to the FBI during an interrogation.  The FBI then
notified the Warren Commission.  However, this does not explain why
on November 29, 1963, a Nazi newspaper in Munich, Germany, named
the Deutsch----unclear-----, published by a guy named Gerhard Frey
(sp), still active on the German Nazi scene, and having a number of
highly-ranked SS officers and former officials from Goebbels
propaganda ministry on its editorial staff, that newspaper revealed
the information that Oswald had shot at Walker on November 29,
1963, based on an interview with Edwin Walker, that Edwin Walker
gave by telephone to Gerhard Frey on November 23, 1963 which was a
full eleven days before Marina Oswald supposedly revealed that to
the world.

Now, you do not have to be Columbo or Sherlock Holmes to figure out
that that throws serious doubt on the validity of the Warren
Commission's investigation, but that is just one of many
evidenciary tributaries leading between our various assassinations
and attempted assassinations.  That does not mean that, yes, Major
General Edwin Walker and the Hunt organization were connected to
Byron de La Beckwith and the assassination of Medgar Evers, yet at
the same time when we see so many of the same elements and the same
names cropping up in connection with our political assassinations,
supposedly unconnected, and supposedly not having any serious
political ramifications, I think we are in a position to stand back
and take a look at these killings and to view them in much the same
light as the assassination program conducted in Germany in the
1920s, long before the world became familiar with the name of
Adolph Hitler, long before National Socialism took over in Germany
and helped plunge the world into war, that there were a series, as
I said, of assassinations conducted in Germany which paved the way
for the rise of fascism in that country.  But in addition to the
leaders of the German revolution, such as Karl Liebnick (sp) and
Rosa Luxembourg (sp), doctrinaire communists themselves, democratic
leaders ranging from Kurt Eisner (sp), Karl Guirise (sp), Gustav
Landauer (sp), Walter von Rattenau (sp), these are names that
history has not remembered and they should have.  As we look at our
assassinations and our attempted assassinations, I think it is
important that we clear away the obfuscation, that we learn to see
the forest despite the trees that have been placed in our way,
because in my opinion, and I think the evidence argues very
strongly in that regard, we here in the United States went through
a similar historical event to the assassination programs in Germany
and Japan that paved the way for the rise of fascism in those
countries.  And, if we do not recognize the facts concerning our
own history and understand what happened and why it happened, we
ourselves are going to ultimately face results as devastating as
what eventually stemmed from the assassination programs in those
countries as well.

That basically concludes the main body of the lecture this evening.


QUESTIONS FOLLOW HERE-----------------AAAAAAAAAAAAA

                     [...to be continued...]

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

