

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 35
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

"INDEPENDENT" COUNSEL FISKE (FIX?) REPORTS ON FOSTER DEATH

Former FBI agent and Watergate personage G. Gordon Liddy has a 
talk show called "Radio Free D.C." Due to his contact with 
someone claiming to be the first to have found the corpse of 
White House aide Vincent Foster, Liddy has a marked interest in 
trying to uncover all details relating to Foster's mysterious 
death.

On Thursday, June 30, 1994, "independent" investigator into 
Clinton sliminess, Robert Fiske (possibly in conjunction with the 
FBI), released a report giving his conclusions as to 
circumstances surrounding Foster's death. Fiske and the FBI, 
either separately or together, concluded that Foster did commit 
suicide in Fort Marcy park, where his body was found. (It is not 
clear to me whether Fiske worked with the FBI on the report or 
whether each arrived at the same conclusion separately.)

Due to his past association with the FBI, Liddy immediately 
received a copy or copies of the report(s) when they first were 
made public on June 30th. However he refrained from commenting on 
the report until he had had time to read through it.

On his July 1, 1994 radio show, Liddy gave the following review 
of the report. (Note that in what follows, it is sometimes hard 
to distinguish between when Liddy is reading from the report and 
when he is interjecting his own comments.)

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

LIDDY: ...with respect to the independent counsel's conclusion 
that Foster killed himself at Fort Marcy park.

The evidence that supports this conclusion is that the blood in 
Foster's body remained pooled in his legs and body cavity; there 
was very little of it having departed from the small entry wound 
in his mouth and the large exit wound in the back of his head.

Foster's body lay on a rampart, at a 45-degree angle, with his 
head and the wound significantly above the pooled blood.

The independent counsel determined that it would be very unlikely 
for the body to be moved while maintaining that upright 
positioning.

And of course that, that's talking about, you know, moving it 
*there*. I'm, what I'm concerned about is, was, did he die 
elsewhere and was moved *to* there.

He [Fiske] says when the Park Police did eventually move the 
body, massive bleeding *did* ensue.

And the only soil found on Foster's clothing matched that of Fort 
Marcy park. If he'd killed himself somewhere else, and his body 
was moved by friends, there would likely to be large quantities 
of soil or carpet fibers from the other location and his clothes 
would have been disrupted, twisted. And none of this was found.

Well, the report may very well be correct. But the failure to 
locate the bullet after a massive search is not satisfactorily 
explained. Nor is the failure to find *any* skull fragments. 
*None* were found there, ladies and gentlemen. And there was a 
tremendous exit wound. And they found, I think, 12 other bullets. 
But they didn't find the one that killed Foster! You know, one 
wonders how many other people died there and they weren't 
supposed to. I'm not convinced, necessarily, that Foster died 
there.

And the skull fragments: they didn't find *any*.

All right. The FBI report also states that the travel office 
fiasco played a heavy role in Foster's decision to commit 
suicide. (Now mind you, I'm not saying that he didn't commit 
suicide. I am questioning whether or not he died *there*.) Foster 
was concerned that the White House travel office firings would be 
closely investigated and he was depressed because he felt such an 
investigation was unwarranted. (This is all, what I'm reading you 
now, is from the report.) Foster felt that he should resign. But 
his reputation would be destroyed if he admitted the fiasco was 
his responsibility and be unable to show his face back in Little 
Rock.

Foster consulted an attorney as to [unclear] his own exposure 
concerning "Travelgate" and feared that his efforts at protecting 
himself would conflict with his duties to serve the interests of 
the President.

According to the report, Vincent Foster was a quiet and reserved 
man who never raised his voice. Yet he raised his voice to then- 
White House counsel Nussbaum when it was decided that Kennedy 
would be the highest White House official reprimanded in the wake 
of the travel office firings.

Foster, according to the FBI report, wanted to take the blame for 
himself. This is consistent with reports that Foster was a man of 
loyalty who worked very hard to build and maintain his 
reputation. It's likely that tremendous stress was placed on him 
when the travel office staff was fired and their names were 
smeared by White House statements that the FBI was investigating 
them internally. Once it became public that the FBI was 
investigating nothing, until they were called by the same White 
House employees who made the slanderous statements, Foster 
speculated that there would be Congressional investigation. (And 
of course, there should have been.) Foster was, most likely, 
unwilling to obstruct that investigation by hiding the plans to 
put President Clinton's cousin in charge of the travel. Foster 
knew of the connections between her travel agency experience in 
Little Rock, and [Dan] Lasater.

(Lasater is the fellow who is the convicted cocaine dealer. And a 
high official in Lasater's organization is now a high official on 
the White House staff [Patsy Thomasson(?)].)

The plan to assist Hollywood "Friend Of Bill" Thomasson generate 
massive profits for his charter airline, Ultra Air, in return for 
the large campaign contribution [a.k.a. bribe] was something that 
Foster knew. And Foster knew that the real way to get in trouble 
in Washington is to participate in a cover-up. He retained a 
lawyer. He knew that appropriate actions to protect himself would 
be in conflict with his actions to protect the President and 
Hillary. And he wanted to resign, but he felt trapped. Because to 
resign in the wake of the fiasco would have damaged his 
reputation in Little Rock. But he was not going to remain in the 
White House and participate in the cover-up. If the Clinton White 
House was going to play the cover-up game, they were gonna do it 
without Vince Foster.

So he "ate" his gun.

All right. Now. There is some more here. In an attempt to deal 
with his depression, according to... this is according to the FBI 
report, Foster wrote down "everything that was disturbing him," 
mentioning that he'd made mistakes relating to "Travelgate" 
because of ignorance and overwork. And he wrote that he did not 
knowingly violate any law. He felt that members of the White 
House press corps improperly benefited from wrongdoing at the 
travel office, but covered the story in a limited fashion so as 
to prevent exposure of their own complicity and benefit from 
wrongful action.

Well the FBI was unable to determine Foster's whereabouts between 
1 pm, when he left the White House, and the time he arrived at 
Fort Marcy and where and when he got the gun. It was not in the 
White House and it is doubtful that he had previously put it in 
his car. Was his car in the White House parking lot? There were 
rumors that it was not. If not, perhaps the gun was in the car 
and he purposely left it outside the White House gate. That's 
just speculation.

Foster's clothes were neat; there was no sign of a struggle.

Uh, insufficient evidence available to estimate the time of 
death!? That's rather remarkable, isn't it? I mean, you know, 
that the, uh, estimating the time of death is something that is 
routinely done in autopsies. I don't really understand that.

Now. The .38 caliber Colt revolver had one empty shell casing in 
it and one complete cartridge. The gun had *two* serial numbers; 
that indicates it was a composite. Both of the originals were 
sold in 1913. There's no additional information. Foster's sister 
*thought* it was her fathers. There's no additional .38 caliber 
ammunition that was found in the Foster home or the automobile. 
You know, there's just 2 cartridges, one of which was expended.

The bullet which exited the back of Foster's skull was never 
found! Now look: nobody buys two Remington cartridges! Where are 
the rest of the .38 cartridges?! They most likely are in the same 
place that Foster was between 1 pm and 4 pm. And where was that? 
Somebody in this town knows. Maybe the person whose hair was 
found on Foster's clothes.

Well the report goes on to say that the confidential witness 
reported seeing wine cooler bottles, a 4-pack. The report states 
that there were empty beer bottles left by Foster's sons from a 
recent trip to the beach. Oh? No alcohol is found in the body, 
but trace amounts of [unclear] and valium, missed by the county 
but found by the FBI lab. (Well that's to be expected. The FBI 
lab is the best in the world.)

No X-rays were taken at the autopsy... *the machine was broken*!! 
<groans>

Listen to this: In addition to numerous gunpowder particles found 
on and around Foster which match that from the Remington 
cartridges found in the gun, there were small amounts of 
gunpowder residue which did *not* come from Foster's gun. And the 
report can't determine the origin of that foreign gunpowder. But 
is speculates that the clothes removed from Foster's body were 
contaminated in an evidence room at the Park Police station where 
the clothes were left in the open for 4 days in a room with a 
fan. You see now? Uh, why the FBI should have been the 
investigating agency here, ladies and gentlemen, and not the 
"meter maids"?

Valium was found... of course the White House did not want the 
FBI investigating this death. *No way*. Valium was found in 
Foster's home. But his wife was not aware that he was taking it.

There was no blood found on the gun?? *That's* interesting.

Blood stains inconsistent with the position of the body as 
discovered. (And at the very least, Foster's head was moved.) 
That you'll find in page 45.

One fingerprint was found on the gun. It was not that of Vincent 
Foster.

Hair, other than Foster's, was found on the body. Fibers from a 
carpet were found on the body. Perhaps a lover. Or a killer. 
Perhaps the body was taken from a carpet. Perhaps the clothing 
was placed on a carpet prior to killing... even days before. We 
don't know.

An extensive search was conducted for the bullet. Metal detectors 
were used. 12 bullets were found. All were modern and none 
matched Foster's gun.

No bone fragments were found. I don't know, the FBI reports that 
Foster killed himself where he was found, basing their conclusion 
on the little blood found on the body. When a body's moved 
there's considerable bleeding and staining as well as massive 
contamination of the clothing.

Soil different. Now that's assuming that, you know, that he died 
on different soil and not on a carpet someplace.

I don't know, ladies and gentlemen. There's a *lot* of questions 
that I still would like to see resolved about *where* Vincent 
Foster met his death.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

