

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 31
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

ASSASSINATION AS A TOOL OF FASCISM
----------------------------------

(...continued...)

JOHN JUDGE: [...continues...] He [Oswald] got out of the Marines 
(you try this) because a box fell on his mother's nose nine 
months before. And the letter documenting her "nasopharyngitis" 
(which means it was swollen) condition arrived 4 days *after* the 
discharge. But the number from the discharge sheet appeared a 
month *before*, on his passport out of the country, you see. So 
he was set to go.

And he was sent by the military, because there were no civilian 
flights when he went from Helsinki into the area. Nothing but a 
military flight could have explained his passage.

Also, when he was ready to come home, he'd met Marina four times 
in his life, and he married her the fourth time he met her. And 
then he took her out of the country. But of course they could get 
her to lie. Because she still didn't have her citizenship in '63, 
they could have sent her right back.

And so what they had her do was say that she didn't speak 
English, and she spoke Russian. And they brought in George Bouhe 
and Raigorodsky and these other CIA translators. And in case the 
translator didn't translate the Russian just right, all the 
people stenotyping at that point, taking minutes, were on 
maternity leave from the CIA.

And then, of course, all the lawyers asking the questions were 
chosen in a meeting, the minutes of which are still buried in the 
National Archives as "National Security" matter until 2039. But 
I'm sure they weren't chosen just because they were under A's or 
B's in the phone book.

It's like when James McCord, a 21 year top man, operative with 
the CIA, gets caught at Watergate because he puts a second piece 
of tape on the door (that's what he calls his book, *A Second 
Piece of Tape*). Well, you know, if you go down and find that 
somebody's removed the tape, you've got to cheese the operation 
and get out of the building. He puts another piece of tape on, 
and when Wills comes around on the second round, he *has* to 
report it. So McCord's in there to make sure they get arrested. 
His guy Baldwin, across the street, doesn't warn anybody. But 
when McCord needs a lawyer for Watergate, he goes out and he gets 
this guy Bernard Fensterwald, who heads up something called the 
Committee to Investigate Assassinations. Which he uses the 
mnemonic, the CTIA. I wrote him a letter and said, "You know, in 
mnemonics, pronouns don't get a letter. It's really CIA, isn't it 
Bud?"

And then it comes out in the Watergate hearing that McCord was 
donating money to the CTIA. You know, he's a "conspiracy nut" 
too, I guess. Or else *maybe* the CIA was paying Fensterwald to 
find out what everybody knows. Sherman Skolnick challenged him, 
in 1972, at a meeting. He said, "You know, when a CIA guy gets 
sick, he goes to a CIA doctor. When he needs money, he goes to 
the CIA bank. When he needs a lawyer, he goes to Edward Bennett 
Williams, doesn't he?"

After that, Fensterwald was the lawyer for Paisley's wife, the 
guy who drowned in the drink, in the Potomac, and was part of the 
Nysenko briefing; a CIA agent. Although *they* say he committed 
suicide, he put diving weights on (if this is true), shot himself 
in the head, threw the gun overboard, and then leapt to his 
death. Skolnick says he drowned, 'cause all the water rushed in 
the hole in his head.

I was looking for an article this morning, about a suicide that 
was actually reported in the press from Baltimore: Where a guy 
committed suicide, get this, by hitting himself 38 times in the 
head with a hammer. And the police were there, demonstrating to 
the press how he might have done it. Thirty-eight times, what a 
headache.

My best one came over the news about a year ago. They said the 
police had determined suicide in a case where the body parts were 
wrapped in a bag. And the bag was tied from the outside. I mean, 
Houdini's got nothing on this guy.

So when you look at the pathology, which is what I do, and the 
nuts and bolts; the bullets, and what direction do they go, and 
where do they come from, and who shot them -- just the police 
work -- that's all you have to do. That's all you have to get. I 
mean, they hide it from you a little bit, but you can piece it 
together. Then you know, that it *didn't* happen the way they 
told you.

I mean, when you go into the evidence of the John F. Kennedy 
assassination, you'll find that Oswald didn't own a rifle; he 
didn't own a pistol. He didn't fire a gun that day. There were no 
nitrate samples on the cheeks or on his palms. He didn't shoot a 
gun. He didn't kill anybody.

Then you go to the witness testimony and the photographic 
evidence. And you find out he wasn't on the sixth floor and 
couldn't have gotten down the stairwell to the first or second 
floor to be buying a coke, when the cop stuck a gun in his 
stomach in the first round of interchange a few minutes after the 
shooting. Seven people saw him watching the motorcade go by, on 
the first floor, as Kennedy was being shot. And we have a photo, 
James Altgen's photo, of him standing in the doorway. Of course, 
the Warren Commission said it was somebody else. But all you have 
to do is compare that guy's description of his shirt to the shirt 
that Oswald has on there, and the one he's got on when he's 
arrested. It's Oswald. You can tell. I'm not a photo expert, but 
you can see his face, hairline, and everything else is the same. 
He was what he said he was: a patsy.

And then, even if you say he's up there, and shooting with this 
Mannlicher-Carcano, the bullets can't do the damage. And it's the 
*same thing* every time I look at it.

The Robert Kennedy case is the same. I noticed that they even use 
the same language when they testify. There's this phrase they 
use. They say, "The bullet is consistent with having been fired 
from the weapon." Now that's not a ballistic term. You know, 
ballistics can tell you pretty much, as long as they've got the 
bullet relatively intact, whether it came from that specific gun. 
Because of the scratches on it, the rifling, and what type of 
bullet it is. All that "consistent with having been fired from 
the weapon" means is that the bullet is not too big to get 
through the barrel. The caliber is either equal to, or smaller 
than, the gun caliber of the barrel. It won't get stuck.

And the way I finally realized that that didn't mean anything was 
in an affidavit in the Sacco and Vanzetti trial. Where the 
sheriff testified "Yes" when they asked him was the bullet in the 
guard at Braintree *consistent* with Sacco's gun. And he said 
that it was. And then he filed an affidavit later, saying that he 
didn't want to be misunderstood; that he was instructed by the 
judge to answer just "yes" or "no" and that all he meant was that 
the bullet would get through the barrel. But that same phrase is 
in the Robert Kennedy trial transcript, it's in the Warren 
Commission ballistic evidence.

Just to take one more example: When Reinhard Gehlen came here, 
many of his 300 operatives were funnelled through a section of 
the Defense Department known as the Army Historical Division. 
Because they, especially George Patton, were busy hiring Nazis to 
help them write the official history of World War II. {1}. So 
both Nazi war criminals and Nazi *historians* were channeled in 
through this, and then fed into the beginnings of the CIA, which 
was formed by Gehlen and his organization. And into Radio Free 
America {2} and Radio Free Europe. The engines of the National 
Security State and the Cold War logic were a lie.

When the Warren Commission investigators had finished their work 
and they went to write the Report, they didn't take any of the 
attorneys or any of the people that they had, essentially, 
already bought off to do a phoney investigation. They wanted to 
make *sure* there was nothing in that Report that would go wrong. 
And when I went into the Archives, about 300 cubic feet of the 
minutes from the meetings were notes, voluminous notes, from 
those 5 different staff investigative teams to the Warren 
Commission, in relation to the final report which they had read. 
And the notes say, "What's the basis for this conclusion? What's 
the evidence for this?" Line after line. Even the liars couldn't 
go as far as the author of the Warren Commission Report had gone. 
But the report went out intact. Hale Boggs asked in one of the 
meetings whether they should print any of the evidence.

"I guess you know," Boggs said, "It might look a little fishy if 
we didn't."

"Go ahead and print it," Dulles said. "Nobody will read it 
anyway."

And Boggs said, "A few of those people out there know how to 
read."

I doubt he meant me, but here I am.

And when you do read it, you can find it out. But the person that 
actually wrote the report is a fellow named *Otto Winnacker*. He 
was on TDY, transfer from the Pentagon to the Warren Commission, 
to do that job. He was also, historically, one of 26 official 
historians of the Reich who worked directly under the 
Reichschancellor, Adolph Hitler, and was brought here into the 
United States. 

                        (to be continued)

[Transcript of a talk given by John Judge at a one-day conference 
entitled "The Fourth Reich in America." A transcript of the 
entire conference, "The Fourth Reich in America," is available 
from Flatland Books, P.O. Box 2420, Fort Bragg, CA  95437.]

--------------------------<< Notes >>----------------------------
{1} Proof that, indeed, "History is written by the assassins."
{2} Not to be confused with the radio show hosted by Tom 
Valentine, nor with the radio show featuring Dave Emory.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

