

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 41
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with the former marketing director of the 
Arkansas Development and Finance Authority, and former associate 
of Bill Clinton, Larry Nichols. This interview took place on the 
May 5, 1994 "America's Town Forum" radio show, hosted by Tom 
Donahue.  The show is broadcast most weekday evenings at 7 pm 
(cst) on shortwave frequency 5.810 mHz. (Nichols speaks via 
telephone with Donahue.)]

[...continued...]

TOM DONAHUE: We're back. Tom Donahue, "America's Town Forum." 
We're talking with Larry Nichols. He worked in the Clinton... 
actually, ADFA, that's the Arkansas Development and Finance 
Authority, when Clinton was Governor.

Um, a few more things on Mr. Parks. Uh, he... Who was he working 
for when he was collecting information, as a private investigator 
in his company, against Bill Clinton?

LARRY NICHOLS: Well, they don't really know. Just yesterday, I 
found out from Gary [Parks] that his mother told *him* for the 
first time that he was working for a congressman. And he started 
getting information in '83, taking pictures of Bill Clinton with 
women, drugs, etc.

DONAHUE: He built up an extensive file.

NICHOLS: Yessir, he did. And that file is missing today.

DONAHUE: Now the house, now, as you said, we'll get into that 
more with Gary, his son, tomorrow. In both hours.

NICHOLS: Let's talk about a current one, Vince Foster.

DONAHUE: Let's do that.

NICHOLS: What did Vince Foster know that would cause him to have 
to die?

Number 1, he was Hillary's boyfriend. Had been for years. Now I 
brought that up in my 1990 lawsuit, the one that brought up 
Gennifer Flowers, Whitewater. All that stuff's been layin' there 
since 1990.

DONAHUE: And trooper Patterson said that during one of the 
parties that Bill [Clinton] was not at, Hillary and Vince Foster 
were... *He saw* Vince Foster, uh, touch, fondle Hillary and she 
was pleased with that kind of fondling and uh, gave the trooper a 
"thumbs up."

NICHOLS: Yeah. As a matter of fact, the troopers also stated that 
they had delivered Vince and Hillary to the Rose Law Firm 
"retreat," to spend weekends together.

DONAHUE: Yes.

NICHOLS: But Vince Foster was involved with that.

Vince Foster knew about the insider trading on the pharmaceutical 
stock. Vince Foster knew that we were comin' at 'em with 
Whitewater. Vince Foster knew I was comin' at 'em with ADFA. And 
all of which he was involved in.

I believe Vince was about to "snap." I think the pressure was 
getting... with "Travelgate," etc. The next thing, you find out 
he's dead.

Now let's take the death. The original 2 ambulance drivers that 
picked up Vince Foster's body were amazed when they put the body 
on the stretcher, because there was no blood. One of 'em even 
said he didn't even have to wash his hands.

As you know, about a month ago (I don't know the exact date, but 
on a Friday), the Park Police [a.k.a. the "meter maids"], with 
all the rumors going around -- and especially if you've seen our 
tape. On the tape I tell you about the inconsistencies: no powder 
burns on the lip, teeth or gums; no puddle of blood; no big 
amount of blood. Well the Park Police did a mysterious thing: 
they released a picture, released 2 pictures, to ABC. And *only* 
ABC.

DONAHUE: Um-hmm [understands]

NICHOLS: And it was supposed to dispel the rum... you know, the 
rumors.

Let me tell you what was wrong with those pictures. Not to get 
into great detail, but they're absolute frauds. And I can prove 
it simply. If you go to the picture where they are showing the 
gun in the hand, and there, laying there from the waist down to 
the crotch, you'll notice red, brown and yellow leaves all over. 
Folks, July the 20th, there are no leaves on the ground in 
Washington, D.C.

DONAHUE: Well how could they mess up so bad? I mean, I don't 
understand how they could be so stupid.

NICHOLS: Well, a lot of people have said, "Well watch out, they 
did that on purpose to trip you up." You gotta understand, Bill 
Clinton and his team are not perfect. And imagine this: If you're 
the President... Even if you're the President of the United 
States and you wake up one day and you say, "Golly. I'm gonna be 
'framed' for this murder. So I need to call somebody and get 
those pictures doctored." Who would you call? You see, Bill 
Clinton runs a *tight* circle of power. A *tight* loop. If he 
picked up the phone and called *you*, Tom, and said, "I need you 
to doctor these pictures," and you said, "no," he's got a leak. 
Because you might go to the media and say, "This guy called me, 
trying to get the pictures doctored!"

DONAHUE: Right. Um-hmm [understands]

NICHOLS: So I don't think you'll find they have the absolute 
expertise available. And to be honest, I don't think they even 
thought about it. And to be even more honest, I don't think they 
cared. Because you will notice, other than me, who has challenged 
those pictures? And I've taken it to other networks. They've had 
it looked at. They've authenticated what I've said. But they're 
not gonna get in a contest with ABC.

DONAHUE: Right. Obviously, uh, the media's having to cover this 
in greater detail with Paula Jones coming forward with her sexual 
harassment suit. And when you hire Bill Bennett's brother, it 
shows you how the difference between Republicans and Democrats 
[chuckles], I mean, I say that "tongue in cheek." You have Bill 
Bennett's brother representing Bill Clinton in this case and 
perhaps in his legal wranglings over "Whitewater-gate."

NICHOLS: Yes. And you see, the Paula Jones story... I talked to 
her and her husband yesterday. She is filing today. It's very 
important that your audience understand: There's a difference 
between Gennifer...

DONAHUE: Was that not officially filed yesterday? Or was there...

NICHOLS: No sir. They were supposed to and they backed off. And 
they're filing today.

DONAHUE: Today. O.K.

NICHOLS: There's a difference between Gennifer Flowers and the 
other women that had affairs with him. And this lady, Tom, this 
lady *is* a lady [i.e. Paula Jones]. She's your wife, my wife, 
our daughters, all your audience's daughters, sisters, wives.

And you see, it's the same thing with her. She was walking down 
the street, essentially, and Bill Clinton said, "I want that 
woman." He sent Danny Ferguson, a state police officer, to 
solicit her, bring her to him. And she said, "No." This woman 
said, "No." And she's scared to death because she knows what I 
have been honor-bound to tell her: That Bill Clinton and his 
"spin doctors" are gonna do everything in their power to destroy 
this woman's reputation, her life. And she said, "No."

DONAHUE: Did not Paula Jones work for Clinton?

NICHOLS: She worked for the state. The actual event occurred 
while the AIDC, the Arkansas Industrial Development Commission, 
was having a convention. She was working the floor of the 
convention. A state trooper came down and told her that the 
Governor wanted to meet her, or talk with her. If you're a state 
employee and the Governor says, "Come on," you come on!

DONAHUE: Well absolutely.

NICHOLS: When she got to the room, she noticed the trooper stood 
at the door, right outside the door, but didn't come in. Bill 
Clinton immediately said he wanted her to have oral sex with him. 
She was shocked. She said, "No." And then he pulled down his 
britches and exposed himself. And she left. She was upset and she 
left.

Now. There's more evidence than I've shared with you. But again, 
we need to let that be resolved through the court system. And we 
need to let her attorneys justify, and her, her position. [CN -- 
To contribute to Paula Jones' legal fund, call 1-800-91 TRUTH.]

DONAHUE: How long ago was that?

NICHOLS: Well the problem is, it was like her 3-year statute of 
limitation runs out tomorrow. Now the big question, and the 
whole...

DONAHUE: We're talking early 1990s which is, you know, I mean 
pretty recent.

NICHOLS: Right. So the problem that they're gonna attack her with 
is credibility, because she waited so long to file. Let me assure 
you, in 19...

DONAHUE: It didn't affect Anita Hill.

NICHOLS: No.

DONAHUE: Anita Hill had all the time in the world.

NICHOLS: Well I know. But in 1988 I tried to get an attorney in 
Arkansas. You could not get one to fight Bill Clinton. And then 
if you'll notice, when her event occurred soon after that he was 
running for President. Soon after that he was President. So bless 
this little lady's heart, she *tried*, early on, to get an 
apology. She was also engaged at the time. She had a real mental 
problem with her husband-to-be finding out, and what it would do.

As soon as she finally told her husband, then it was over. He did 
the right thing and said, "Come on." And they sought out, and 
they couldn't find, a "high dollar," good attorney. They ended up 
taking Danny Traler(?), which I'm not "knocking" him, but he's a 
real estate attorney.

Now yesterday, you'll notice, they put on a show of strength, to 
prove to Traler and to Paula what's gonna happen to 'em. They 
hired the biggest name attorney they could hire, they attacked 
Paula, and they attacked their attorney. And it was designed to 
scare 'em -- which it did. Hopefully it would scare them from 
filing, which it did not do.

And Tom, the thing, and this is the most significant, other than 
the fact she said, "No.": Think about Congress now. What are they 
gonna do? On one hand, they're trying to roast and destroy Bob 
Packwood. They had nowhere near the evidence that this lady has. 
Now what are they gonna do? Are they gonna say, "Uh oh. Now we're 
after Packwood and now our 'fearless leader' is accused of the 
same thing, with more evidence. We roasted Anita Hill's uh, 
Clarence Thomas." What are they gonna do? Are they going to 
pursue Clinton like they pursued Packwood? Or are they gonna have 
to drop Packwood and say, "Well. Nothin' on him either."

You see, Congress is *in a bind*. And I will say one more thing.

DONAHUE: Call it "Hypocrisy-gate." We've gotta take a break. And 
hold that thought. We're gonna go to your calls, I promise, in 
just moments. 1-800-298-8255.

                       (to be continued)

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

