
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 10  Num. 08
             =======================================
                     ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE
========================
 
David Hoffman, author of  a  forthcoming  book *The Oklahoma City
Bombing and the Politics of Terror*, offers the following preview
of his work-in-progress.  Hoffman says his book will be published
by Feral House, probably in late  1997.   Hoffman  publishes  the
Haight  Ashbury Free Press, and has temporarily moved to Oklahoma
City to work on this book.
 
                 "The Manchurian Candidate"
 
In order to fulfill  his  military  obligation, McVeigh signed on
with the Army National Guard in Buffalo, where he landed a job as
a security guard with Burns International Security.  McVeigh  was
assigned  to  the  night  shift,  guarding the grounds of Calspan
Research, a defense contractor  that conducts classified research
in advanced aerospace rocketry and electronic warfare.
 
In a manner mirroring his conduct in the service, McVeigh  became
the  consummate  security  guard.  Calspan spokesman Al Salandra,
told  reporters  that  McVeigh   was  "a  model  employee."   Yet
according to media accounts, McVeigh had lost his confidence, and
his cool.
 
"Timmy  was  a  good  guard,"  said former Burns supervisor Linda
Haner-Mele.  He was "always  there  prompt,  clean and neat.  His
only quirk," according to Mele, "was that he couldn't  deal  with
people.   If  someone  didn't  cooperate with him, he would start
yelling at them, become verbally aggressive.  He could be set off
easily."
 
According to an article in  the  Washington Post, co-workers at a
Niagara Falls convention center where he was  assigned  described
him  as  "emotionally  spent,  veering from passivity to volcanic
anger."  An old friend  said  he  looked "like things were really
weighing on him."
 
"Timmy just wasn't the type of person who could initiate action,"
said Lynda Haner-Mele formerly of Burns Security,  where  McVeigh
worked  in early 1992.  "He was very good if you said, 'Tim watch
this door-don't let anyone through.' The Tim I knew couldn't have
masterminded something like this and  carried it out himself.  It
would have had to have been someone who said:  'Tim, this is what
you do.  You drive the truck"
 
Mele's  account  directly  contradicts  the testimony of Sergeant
Chris Barner [and] former Private Ray Jimboy, both of whom served
with McVeigh  at  Fort  Riley,  and  claimed  that  McVeigh was a
natural leader.  This also contradicts McVeigh's service  record,
which  rated  him "among the best" in leadership potential and an
"inspiration to young  soldiers."   "He  had  a lot of leadership
ability inside himself," said Barner.  "He  had  a  lot  of  self
confidence."
 
Apparently,  "Something  happened to Tim McVeigh between the time
he left the Army and now," said Captain Terry Guild.
 
"He  didn't  really  carry  himself  like  he  came  out  of  the
military," said Mele.  "He  didn't  stand tall with his shoulders
back.  He kind of slumped over."  She  recalled  him  as  silent,
expressionless,  with  lightless  eyes,  but subject to explosive
fits of temper.  "That guy  didn't  have an expression 99 percent
of the time," added Mele.  "He was cold."
 
Colonel David Hackworth, an  Army veteran who interviewed McVeigh
for  Newsweek,  concluded  that  McVeigh  was  suffering  from  a
"postwar hangover."  "I've  seen  countless  veterans,  including
myself,  stumble  home  after  the  high-noon  excitement  of the
killing fields,  missing  their  battle  buddies  and  the unique
dangers and sense of purpose," wrote Hackworth in  the  July  3rd
edition of Newsweek.  "Many lose themselves forever."
 
Although such symptoms may be seen as a delayed reaction syndrome
resulting  from  the  stress  of  battle,  they  are  also common
symptoms  of  mind  control.   The  subject  of  mind  control or
hypnosis often seems emotionally spent, as  though  he  had  been
through a harrowing ordeal.
 
While  visiting  friends  in Decker, Michigan, McVeigh complained
that the Army had  implanted  him  with  a microchip, a miniature
subcutaneous (beneath the skin) transponder, so that  they  could
keep  track  of  him.   He complained that it left an unexplained
scar on his buttocks and was painful to sit on.
 
To  the  public,  unfamiliar  with  the  bewildering  lexicon  of
government mind control research, such  a claim may appear as the
obvious rantings of a paranoiac.  But is it?
 
Miniaturized telemetrics have been part of an ongoing project  by
the  military  and  the various intelligence agencies to test the
effectiveness  of  tracking  soldiers  on  the  battlefield.  The
miniature implantable telemetric  device  was  declassified  long
ago.   As  far  back  as 1968, Dr. Stuart Mackay, in his textbook
entitled  Bio-Medical  Telemetry,   reported,   "Among  the  many
telemetry instruments  being  used  today,  are  miniature  radio
transmitters  that  can  be  swallowed,  carried  externally,  or
surgically   implanted   in  man  or  animal.   They  permit  the
simultaneous study of behavior and physiological functioning."
 
It is interesting  to  note  that  McVeigh  claimed that the Army
implanted him with a microchip.  According to Dr.  Carl  Sanders,
the developer of the Intelligence Manned Interface (IMI) biochip,
"We  used this with military personnel in the Iraq War where they
were actually tracked using this particular type of device."
 
It  is  also  interesting  to  note  that  the  Calspan  Advanced
Technology Center in  Buffalo,  NY  (Calspan  ATC), where McVeigh
worked, is engaged in microscopic electronic engineering  of  the
kind  applicable  to telemetrics.  Calspan was founded in 1946 as
Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory, which included the "Fund for the
Study of Human Ecology," a CIA financing conduit for mind control
experiments  by  imigri  Nazi  scientists  and  others  under the
direction of CIA Doctors Sidney Gottlieb, Ewen Cameron, and Louis
Jolyn West.
 
According to mind control researcher Alex  Constantine,  "Calspan
places  much  research  emphasis on bioengineering and artificial
intelligence (Calspan pioneered in the  field in the 1950s)."  In
his article, "The Good Soldier," Constantine states:
 
"Human  tracking  and  monitoring  technology  are  well   within
Calspan's  sphere  of  pursuits.   The company is instrumental in
REDCAP, an Air Force electronic warfare system that winds through
every Department of Defense facility  in the country.  A Pentagon
release  explains  that  REDCAP  "is   used   to   evaluate   the
effectiveness  of electronic-combat hardware, techniques, tactics
and concepts."  The system  "includes  closed-loop radar and data
links at RF manned data fusion and weapons control  posts."   One
Patriot   computer   news  board  reported  that  a  disembodied,
rumbling, low-frequency hum had been heard across the country the
week of the bombing.  Past hums  in Taos, NM, Eugene and Medford,
OR,  Timmons,  Ontario  and  Bristol,  UK  were  most  definitely
(despite  specious  official  denials)  attuned  to  the  brain's
auditory pathways.
 
"The Air Force is among  Calspan's leading clients, and Eglin AFB
has farmed key personnel to the company.  The  grating  irony  --
recalling   McVeigh's  contention  he'd  been  implanted  with  a
telemetry chip -- is  that  the Instrumentation Technology Branch
of Eglin Air Force Base is currently engaged in the  tracking  of
mammals with subminiature telemetry devices.  According to an Air
Force press release, the biotelemetry chip transmits on the upper
S-band (2318 to 2398 MHz), with up to 120 digital channels."
 
There is nothing secret about the  biotelemetry  chip.   Ads  for
commercial  versions  of  the  device  have  appeared in national
publications.  Time magazine  ran  an  ad  for an implantable pet
transponder in its June 26, 1995 issue --  ironically  enough  --
opposite  an article about a militia leader who was warning about
the coming New World Order.  While monitoring animals has been an
unclassified scientific pursuit  for  decades,  the monitoring of
humans has been a highly classified project which is but a subset
of the Pentagon's "nonlethal"  arsenal.   As  Constantine  notes,
"the  dystopian  implications  were  explored by Defense News for
March 20, 1995:
 
  Naval Research Lab Attempts  To  Meld  Neurons  And  Chips:
  Studies May Produce Army of "Zombies."
 
"Future  battles  could  be  waged  with  genetically  engineered
organisms,  such  as  rodents,  whose  minds  are  controlled  by
computer  chips  engineered  with  living  brain  cells....   The
research,  called  Hippo-campal  Neuron  Patterning,  grows  live
neurons  on computer chips." "This technology that alters neurons
could potentially be  used  on  people  to create zombie armies,"
Lawrence Korb, a senior  fellow  at  the  Brookings  Institution,
said.
 
"It's conceivable, given the current state of the electronic mind
control  art,  a  biocybernetic Oz over the black budget rainbow,
that McVeigh had been  drawn  into  an experimental project, that
the device was the real McCoy."  (Constantine)
 
What this defense department newsletter may have been  discussing
is  the  successor  to  the  "Stimoceiver," developed in the late
1950s by Dr. Joseph Delgado and  funded by the CIA and the Office
of Naval  Research.   The  stimoceiver  is  a  tiny  transponder,
implanted  in  the  head  of a control subject, which can then be
used to  modify  emotions  and  control  behavior.   According to
Delgado, "Radio Stimulation of different points in  the  amygdala
and  hippocampus  [areas  of  the  brain]  in  the  four patients
produced a  variety  of  effects,  including pleasant sensations,
elation, deep,  thoughtful  concentration,  odd  feelings,  super
relaxation, colored visions, and other responses."
 
According  to  Delgado,  "One  of  the  possibilities  with brain
transmitters is to influence people so that they conform with the
political system.   Autonomic  and  somatic functions, individual
and social  behavior,  emotional  and  mental  reactions  may  be
invoked,  maintained, modified, or inhibited, both in animals and
in man, by stimulation of specific cerebral structures.  Physical
control of many brain  functions  is  a demonstrated fact.  It is
even possible to follow intentions, the  development  of  thought
and visual experiences."
 
As  Constantine  points  out,  the military has a long and sordid
history of using  enlisted  men  and  unwitting civilians for its
nefarious experiments, ranging from radiation, poison gas,  drugs
and   mind   control,   to   spraying  entire  U.S.  cities  with
bacteriological viruses to test  their effectiveness, as was done
in San Francisco in the late  1950s.   The  most  recent  example
involves  the  use  of  experimental  vaccines tested on Gulf War
veterans who are currently experiencing bizarre symptoms, not the
least of which is death.   When attorneys representing the former
soldiers requested their military medical files, they  discovered
there was no record of the vaccines ever being administered.
 
Timothy McVeigh may have unkowningly been an Army/CIA guinea  pig
involved  in  a  classified  telemetric/mind-control project -- a
"Manchurian Candidate."
 
--
By
David Hoffman, Publisher
Haight Ashbury Free Press
6118 N. Meridian, #621
Oklahoma City, OK 73112
http://www.webcom.com/haight
(405) 948-1330 (temporarily in Oklahoma City)
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

