
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 10  Num. 02
             =======================================
                     ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
THE SOYBEAN CASES and JUDICIAL BRIBERY
======================================
By Sherman H. Skolnick
----------------------
 
The Italian firm was getting a  bigger and bigger presence in the
soybean markets, such as on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Fair and
square, following the rules, they had cornered the market in 1989
when there was a drought  expected.   There  was  a  shortage  of
soybeans.
 
Ferruzzi Finanziaria S.p.A., the  agro-chemical holding firm, was
run by what some called a wizard, Raul Gardini, who  had  married
the  daughter  of  the  firm's founder, Serafino Ferruzzi.  Their
operation was called Central Soya Co., of Ft. Wayne, Indiana, and
Ferruzzi U.S.A., Inc., with principal offices in Louisiana.
 
Those who understood business realized Ferruzzi was more actually
owned and operated by the Vatican Bank; over the years by Vatican
Bank Chief, Bishop Paul  Marcinkus;  and  earlier by "St. Peter's
Banker," Michele Sindona.
 
Ferruzzi's  main  competitors   were   primarily   Cargill,   the
secretive,  privately owned firm, headquartered in Minnesota, and
the   highly   political   --   some   say   highly   corrupt  --
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., darling of  the  mass  media.   (Some
have  long  grumbled  that ADM's long-time chief, Dwayne Andreas,
should have been fingered,  with  Nixon,  in the Watergate Affair
for corrupt practices and dirty tricks.)
 
In view of the circumstances in 1989, Cargill and ADM  had  taken
the  wrong position in respect to soybeans.  To fill orders, both
domestic and for export, they  would  have  to come to terms with
Ferruzzi, and the Italian firm rightfully could  and  would  push
them into default and own them.
 
To  save  themselves,  Cargill  and  ADM  reportedly had a malign
influence on the Chicago  Board  of  Trade.  The chairman of that
commodity exchange,  by  Emergency  Resolution,  July  11,  1989,
changed  the  rules  in  the  middle  of  the game.  Ferruzzi was
ordered to drop most of their position in soybeans.
 
Ferruzzi brought a  suit  seeking  injunction against the Chicago
Board of Trade  in  Chicago's  highly  corrupt  federal  district
court.   (Ferruzzi  Trading  International, et al., vs.  Board of
Trade of Chicago,  No.  89  C  5469).   The  case was assigned to
Chicago U.S. District Judge James B.  Zagel,  a  close  crony  of
former  Illinois  Governor  Jim Thompson.  (In November, 1994, on
our one-hour public access cable TV show, we demonstrated how Big
Jim and his circle are kingpins  in the "China White" high purity
heroin smuggling into the U.S. through Chicago.)
 
Judge Zagel was not about to let Ferruzzi default Cargill and ADM
and end up owning their business.  The judge with little  fanfare
denied  the  injunction.   Ferruzzi  was  forced  to  dump  their
contracts  and  positions  on  soybeans.   Thousands  of innocent
soybean farmers were ruined, some bankrupted.
 
How did this happen?  That  at  a time of soybean shortages, with
not enough to meet domestic demand and for export, soybean prices
collapsed instead of going up.
 
In the U.S. District Court in Chicago  was  brought  a  purported
class  action  by  angry  soybean  farmers:  American Agriculture
Movement, Inc., et al., vs.   Board  of Trade of City of Chicago,
case No. 89 C. 8467.  It was assigned to Chicago Federal District
Judge George M. Marovich, a long-time banker  whose  bank,  South
Holland  Trust  &  Savings  Bank  (in  a  Chicago  suburb), was a
correspondent bank of Continental Bank of Chicago, mother ship of
the commodity markets and the Chicago Board of Trade.
 
Presidential campaigns are planned four or more years in advance.
Hillary Rodham Clinton was linked to a group of bankers, lawyers,
and others  from  Fayetteville,  Arkansas  and  elsewhere in that
state.  The Chicago Board of Trade was part of a money laundering
apparatus, washing illicit funds for the 1992  campaign  of  Bill
Clinton -- such as washing dope money from the CIA's operation at
the Mena, Arkansas airport.
 
In  previous  articles,  I  told  how I and an associate of mine,
Joseph Andreuccetti, who helps  with  our  cable  TV show, are on
Hillary Rodham Clinton's "enemies list," and are  and  have  been
targeted   for   a  long  list  of  dirty  tricks,  threats,  and
harassment, by the FBI,  the  IRS,  and others.  Our suit seeking
damages against the First Lady and  others  acting  with  her  is
entitled Sherman H. Skolnick and Joseph Andreuccetti, plaintiffs,
vs.   Hillary  Rodham Clinton, et al., defendants, No. 96 C 4373,
in the U.S. District Court in Chicago, filed 7/18/96, and pending
before the selfsame Judge George M. Marovich (a coincidence?).
 
In court papers filed recently by us, are contained the following
-- some excerpts:
 
  --  "that  the  financial  interests  of  defendant Hillary
  Rodham Clinton, and her law  partner,  Vincent  W.  Foster,
  Jr.,  were  interwoven  with  certain lawyers, bankers, and
  agents,    representatives,    and    investigators,   from
  Fayetteville, Arkansas and elsewhere."
 
  --  "On  December  1,   1991,  defendant  [Hillary  Rodham]
  Clinton, in conjunction with her business partner,  Vincent
  W.  Foster,  Jr.,  by  and  through  bankers,  lawyers, and
  representatives,  agents,  and  investigators,  sought  and
  obtained a  meeting  with  plaintiff  Skolnick.  Said group
  being  from  Fayetteville,  Arkansas   and   elsewhere   in
  Arkansas,  and  other places...  Skolnick was informed that
  said group had  a  financial  interest  in  the billions of
  dollars of transactions in a class action  in  the  federal
  courts  in Chicago, entitled American Agriculture Movement,
  Inc., et al., plaintiffs vs.  Board of Trade of the City of
  Chicago, et al., defendants.   No.  89  C 8467, in the U.S.
  District Court...  At a later date, Skolnick  became  aware
  that  said  transactions  were  part  of a massive, illicit
  enterprise,  laundering  dope  funds  such  as  from  Mena,
  Arkansas, to raise funds for the 1992 Presidential election
  of Bill Clinton, in  which  defendant  Clinton played a key
  role, along with Vincent W. Foster, Jr., and defendant  Amy
  Zisook, chief fund-raiser for the '92 campaign."
 
  --  "Skolnick  was informed that the investigations of said
  group showed that the  presiding  judge in said litigation,
  U.S. District Judge George M. Marovich,  was  acting  in  a
  corrupt  manner  and under a malign influence, to favor the
  defendants therein, including the Chicago Board of Trade."
 
  -- "Said group acknowledged  and confirmed to Skolnick that
  corrupt federal commodity regulators, such as the Commodity
  Futures Trading Commission,  permitted  and  condoned  this
  corruption  including  the Chicago Board of Trade and their
  officials being in a position  to work a malign and corrupt
  influence on George M. Marovich as banker and  judge.   The
  following colloquy took place:
 
    Question  by  Skolnick:   Do  you wish to 'go public'
    with this, to finger  Judge  George M. Marovich, such
    as being guests on my show?
 
    Answer: Not just yet.
 
    Question by Skolnick:  Or do you wish  to  strong-arm
    and  blackmail  Judge Marovich for your own financial
    advantage?
 
    (No answer was given.)"
 
  "By said acts  and  doings,  by  and  through  said  group,
  defendant  Clinton  and Foster mis-used plaintiff Skolnick,
  an electronic journalist and  court reformer; for defendant
  to blackmail Judge Marovich, to gain a financial advantage,
  and  to  cover   up   the   defendant's   massive   illicit
  transactions  through  the  Chicago markets and massive tax
  evasion; and for the  purpose  of defendant covering up the
  related matters of the  50 million dollar transfer referred
  to herein...  Said  group  acknowledged  and  confirmed  to
  Skolnick  that  Judge  Marovich,  individually  and through
  persons financially associated  with  him and through banks
  acting in conjunction with him and them, speculates in  the
  commodity  markets  in  the  selfsame  commodities  in said
  litigation."
 
  -- "That on January  16,  1993, certain persons sought, and
  obtained, a meeting with Skolnick and  Andreuccetti.   Said
  meeting  included  a director of the Chicago Board of Trade
  and principals of two  trading member firms.  They informed
  plaintiffs they  were  undecided  whether  they  wanted  to
  appear  as  guests  on  Skolnick's  public  access cable TV
  program, "Broadsides," in which Andreuccetti assists in the
  production  and  distribution.   During  the  meeting,  the
  following took place,  with  Skolnick asking the questions,
  Andreuccetti observing, and a director of the Chicago Board
  of Trade answering:
 
    Question:   In   the   case   against  you,  American
    Agriculture Movement, Inc. versus The Board of  Trade
    of the City of Chicago, is it true Judge Marovich was
    somehow corrupted?
 
    Answer:   Yes,  it cost us 62 million dollars between
    the judge and those in the appeals court.
 
  Meaning to  be  understood  by  said  director  and  was so
  understood by plaintiffs that it included  Judge  James  B.
  Zagel  and  Joel  M.  Flaum  among  others...  Thereupon, a
  trading firm member principal reached across the table  and
  said  to  the  director of the Chicago Board of Trade:  You
  shouldn't be telling him (pointing to Skolnick).  Whereupon
  the Chicago Board of Trade director answered:
 
    Answer:  I am telling  him (meaning Skolnick) because
    he probably already knows and it is bound to come out
    and we're all going to get blackened.  You (referring
    to the principal of the trading firm member) know  we
    had to do it.
 
    Further question by Skolnick:  Are you confirming you
    paid off the judges, including Judge Marovich?
 
    Answer:   Yes.  (Meaning  to  be  understood  by said
    director and  so  understood  by  plaintiffs that the
    bribery included Judges  Zagel,  Flaum,  Ripple,  and
    Eschbach.   At  a later date, Skolnick found out that
    said group at said meeting used the happening of said
    meeting to blackmail  a  financial  advantage of CFTC
    and Marovich.)"
 
  -- "Whereupon, in July, 1993,  defendant  Clinton,  by  and
  through  directors  and officials of the Chicago Mercantile
  Exchange sought, and  obtained  a  series  of meetings with
  Skolnick and Andreuccetti, as follows:
 
     On July 14, 1993, in the presence of those officials and
  directors, and an Exchange security official,  Andreuccetti
  pushing   Skolnick   in  his  wheelchair,  plaintiffs  were
  escorted around the entire  floor of the Chicago Mercantile
  Exchange, during a trading session.  Skolnick was told that
  this was the first time a person in  a  wheelchair  was  on
  such  a  tour.   Many  of  the Exchange's employees stopped
  their activities when Skolnick  was  rolled past, and asked
  Skolnick and Andreuccetti, 'Are you investigating  us'  and
  followed  by  'We  watch your show.' Skolnick simply smiled
  and  responded,  'I  am  enjoying  the  tour.'  Thereafter,
  Skolnick  and  Andreuccetti  met  with  the  directors  and
  officials of the Exchange  in  a  snack shop.  Skolnick was
  told:  There is no basis to you investigating  and  raising
  questions  about  the  Merc  and  the  First  Lady  and her
  associates (meaning Vincent W.  Foster, Jr., the then newly
  appointed Clinton White House deputy counsel.)  There is no
  basis to it.  Everything's out in the open here.  Skolnick,
  in  the  presence  of  Andreuccetti,  simply   smiled   and
  responded,  'I  am  enjoying  the  tour.'  Whereupon  there
  followed  a  luncheon with the Merc's directors at a nearby
  restaurant.  Substantially the same  dialogue took place at
  said meeting also.  Some six days later, Foster  was  found
  mysteriously dead, some say murdered."
 
  -- "that Assistant  U.S.  Attorney  William  R. Hogan, Jr.,
  was, in effect, the representative in the  U.S.  Attorney's
  office  in Chicago of (1) the office of Catholic Archbishop
  of Chicago; (2) the Vatican  Bank and Bishop Paul Marcinkus
  who was Vatican Bank  chief  up  to November, 1991; (3) The
  Pope.  Marcinkus' nephew/godson, Christian Henning, Jr., by
  falsely  claiming  to  be  Joseph  Andreuccetti's  business
  partner,  caused  Andreuccetti  to  be  defrauded  of  many
  millions of dollars as hereinbefore stated...   Yet,  at  a
  time  of  soybean  shortage,  because  of  this corruption,
  soybean prices went  down  when  they  should have gone up.
  The result of the corruption:  thousands of soybean farmers
  were  ruined,  some  bankrupted.   Another  result  of  the
  judicial corruption:  Ferruzzi lost upwards  of  a  billion
  dollars  and the chief of their holding firm, Raul Cardini,
  who  had  married  into   the   Ferruzzi  family,  and  was
  considered a wizard, committed suicide, July 1993."
 
  -- "It was no mere coincidence -- for the  related  benefit
  of  defendant  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton, who along with her
  business  partner  Vincent  W.  Foster,  Jr.,  had  massive
  interests,  the   Clinton   Justice   Department  torpedoed
  Ferruzzi's informal representative in the U.S., William  R.
  Hogan,  Jr., an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Chicago.  Hogan,
  the lead prosecutor  in  a  group  of  cases against the El
  Rukns,  a  narco-terrorist  street  gang  in  Chicago,  was
  accused by the Justice Department of alleged misconduct  in
  the El Rukn cases in 1993 and put on administrative leave."
     "Hogan  countered that the Justice Department knows full
  well, but  takes  no  action,  that  six  federal judges in
  Chicago are corrupt and take bribes, including  Chief  U.S.
  Bankruptcy Judge John D. Schwartz."
 
NOTE SOME OF THE POINTS  OF  THE  CORRUPTION IN THE SOYBEAN CASES
AND RELATED MATTERS:
 
1.  Large  sums  of  illicit  monies,  for  Bill  Clinton's  1992
Presidential  campaign,  have  been laundered through the Chicago
Board of Trade.
 
2.  To cover up  such  matters,  and  massive illicit dealings of
Hillary Rodham Clinton  and  her  business  partner,  Vincent  W.
Foster,  Jr.,  the  judge  in  the soybean cases is among several
federal judges in Chicago, who were corrupted with bribes of some
62 million dollars;  as  admitted  by  a  director of the Chicago
Board of Trade.
 
3.  Six days after the director  and  officials  of  the  Chicago
Mercantile Exchange tried to persuade me and an associate of mine
to  terminate  our investigations of Hillary and Foster -- Foster
is found dead, apparently murdered.
 
4.  In the same July,  1993,  the head of Ferruzzi, Raul Gardini,
is found dead -- is it possible, like Foster, Gardini's death was
written off as a suicide  when,  in  fact,  it  might  have  been
murder? 
 
5.   A  group of bankers, lawyers, and others from Arkansas, tied
to Hillary  Rodham  Clinton's  financial  interests,  sets out to
blackmail Judge George M. Marovich in the soybean cases, from the
other side.
 
6.  A related matter is the secret transfer of 50 million dollars
of federal funds parked with the  Vatican-linked  Household  Bank
and  Household  International;  transferred  to  Little  Rock, to
attempt to cover up the  embezzlement  of 47 million dollars from
Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan, for which embezzlement Bill  and
Hillary Clinton are subject to federal criminal indictment.
 
7.   Nothing has been done to remedy innocent soybean farmers who
were ruined, some bankrupted by this judicial corruption.
 
8.  Nothing is said in the monopoly press about the corruption of
Cargill and ADM implicitly involved in the Chicago Board of Trade
bribery of the federal judges in Chicago -- Ferruzzi was smashed,
and Cargill  and  ADM  escaped  default  and  take-over  of their
companies by Ferruzzi.
 
Quoted excerpts are from Case No. 96 C 4373 that has been pending
before Chicago Federal District Judge George M. Marovich  who  is
protecting  defendant  Hillary Rodham Clinton and others that are
defendants in the  case,  including  defendant  Amy Zisook, chief
fund-raiser for President Clinton's 1992 campaign, consultant  to
Hillary  and  Bill,  and,  according  to the issues raised in the
lawsuit, tied to fund-raising  from criminal foreign interests as
well as mafioso union bosses, and tied to  Ron  Brown,  the  late
corrupt  Secretary  of  Commerce  and  his  crooked  trade deals,
national and international.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

