 
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 11  Num. 32
             =======================================
                     ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------

MARY TODD LINCOLN: TRUE KILLER OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN? [1]
======================================================
By (name withheld by request)
-----------------------------
[CN: This version supersedes previous version (CN 11.29)]

THE GUN THAT SHOT ABRAHAM LINCOLN AND IS DISPLAYED ON THE WALL OF
FORDS THEATER TODAY IS  A  WOMAN'S  DERRINGER  WITH A WHITE PEARL
HANDLE!!
 
Would anyone (especially a man in the 1860s) in their right  mind
try  to  kill  the President of the United States with a one shot
small pistol normally carried by  a woman?  Six shooter revolvers
existed in the 1860s and if one were to plot to kill a President,
one would logically have more than one bullet in the barrel.

Mary Todd  Lincoln,  like  many  women  in  Washington during the
American Civil War, carried a  derringer....But  Mary  Todd  also
owned  a  derringer  with a white pearl handle....that fact is in
the National Archives.  And  she  waved, flashed and flaunted her
pearly pop gun often on the streets of Washington  D.C.  and  The
White House.
 
Lincoln  was  shot on the left side of his head and Mary Todd was
left handed.  [2] Mary Todd was barred from attending the funeral
and two armed guards made sure she  did not leave her room for 10
days  after  the  shooting  ....that  fact  is  in  the  National
Archives. [3]
 
Mary Todd  Lincoln  was  denied  the  normal  customary  widowers
pension  three  times  by the U.S. Congress (Today the pension is
automatic).
  
Mary Todd like so  many  high  society persons in Washington D.C.
during the 1860s was an opium  addict...  that  fact  is  in  the
Library  of Congress.  [4] Her drug supplier also was a part time
actor who doubled for the real  full time actor John Wilkes Booth
when he had multiple appearances on the same day in two different
cities.
 
Abraham  had  the Treasury Department print money and that really
pissed-off the Rothschilds and  others  because they did not want
any competition with money they printed via their private company
called the Federal Reserve Bank.  [5] Lincoln had to  go  because
he  betrayed  his  "family"  but the plot was to discredit him by
revealing that he  had  an  affair  with  a Hapsburg illegitimate
offspring and the royal sex resulted in two children.
 
The part  time  actor  (Mary's  catnip  boy)  was  sent to Ford's
theater to inform the President that  an  important  message  was
waiting  for  him  at  the  War Department.  The plot then was to
knock-out Abe and smuggle him (An empty carriage was found at the
back of Ford's Theater  the  night  of  the  shooting) onto a sea
vessel, drug him for several days and return him to Washington in
a daze as the press zeroed in on the drugged President, the facts
and pictures (there are many) of his illegitimate family would be
released.  The President would have to resign and Mary  Todd  was
part of this plot.
 
However Stanton and the Rothschilds underestimated the revenge of
a   delirious  First  Lady  strung-out  on  opium  who  has  just
discovered that  her  hubby  had  popped  a  secret,  illegal yet
"royal" family.  Now Mary Todd was also going to do some popping.
 
As the part time imposter actor opened the door to the  suite  at
Ford's  Theater  to  summon  the  President,  he  was shocked and
horrified to  see  Mary  Todd  pointing  and  firing  her woman's
derringer into her husband's head.  The imposter  actor  panicked
because  he  knew  his  buddies  downstairs  would  blame him for
shooting the President - and that was not the game plan at all or
he was set-up as the fall guy / patsy from the beginning.  Either
way going back downstairs was not  a good idea so the drug pusher
jumped from the Presidential box seats into the third act of  the
play at Ford's Theater and broke his leg.

The  term  "Break A Leg" used in the theater comes from "Booth's"
(the fake one) flying leap  into  the  third act of "Our American
Cousin" performed at Fords Theater on April 14, 1865.
 
The real John Wilkes Booth had no choice but  to  escape  on  the
first  ship  to  India  because  his  career  and reputation were
blasted away  by  a  junkie  and  her  wacked  out  and desperate
supplier claiming  to  be  Booth.   The  fake  Booth  escaped  to
Grandbury  Texas  and  did  some  acting  but  his alcoholism and
blabbering mouth resulted in  his  murder by arsenic poisoning in
Enid, Oklahoma.

Many people from the North and  South wanted the fake Booth to be
silent one way or another and a former high  ranking  confederate
officer who was in charge of disrupting union payroll lines ended
the  charade.   The  fake  Booth's  intensely  pickled  body  was
grotesquely  displayed  as the remains of the real Booth in towns
and hamlets in the Midwest and Western states for 18 months after
he was force fed the lethal  cocktail in the spring of 1911.  [6]
In the continuing bizarre chain of events, there exists  today  a
certified  sworn  affidavit from a cousin of Abraham Lincoln that
he was present at the poisoning of the fake Booth.

Spin  control  of  reality  and  the  perception  of  reality was
critical for the powers that be.  The  first  move  Stanton  made
according  to  several documents in Washington D.C. libraries [7]
was to commit the  two  persons  that accompanied the Lincolns to
the theater the evening of the murder  to  a  mental  institution
within  30  days of the shooting.  Major Henry Rathbone and Clara
Harris were released from the booby hatch sometime in 1867.  What
happened to these pivotal eye witnesses while they were locked up
in the asylums?   Later  the  two  witness  married and the Major
supposedly murdered his wife.  Were both of these persons totally
sane when they were forced into the  institutions  but  purposely
driven mad because they knew too much?

Robert Todd Lincoln - son of Abe and Mary  -  knew  most  of  the
facts of his fathers's affair, half sisters and mother's drug and
murdering ways but used his knowledge and his silence to secure a
cushy  job  as  the President of Pullman Railroad Cars.  Stanton,
the Rothschilds, and the Paysurers made sure Robert Todd was fat,
sassy, had plenty of cash to  burn in his favorite elite gambling
halls and whore houses but most of all he was  totally  quiet  to
his grave.  Over the years Robert Todd did everything he could to
destroy  evidence  related  to  his  sordid family history but he
could not destroy all the facts and evidence.... [8]

While growing up in  Illinois  in  the  1920s  and 30s Mary Alice
Kemery looked at a large picture with a glass bubble  of  Abraham
Lincoln  in her grandparents and then later in her parents homes.
One  day  she  requested  that   the   picture  on  the  wall  be
investigated by historians and to her and her family's shock they
discovered  the  picture  was  a  prized  missing  and  authentic
lithograph signed by Lincoln on the back of the photo.

How did this prized picture worth over a million dollars get into
her family home?  Mary's father ask his grandmother Emma when  he
was  a  child  where  the  photo came from and her reply was "let
sleeping dogs lie" and  then  would  often  cry after making that
statement.   Emma  cried  because  the  picture  was   the   only
connection  she  had to her father - Abraham Lincoln.  Her mother
disappeared shortly after she and her twin sister were born.

After discovering the photo on her family's wall was an authentic
piece of Lincoln  history,  Mary  Alice  Kemery  began  a 35 year
investigation  into  her  family's  history,  Lincoln   and   the
assassination.   All the aforementioned facts about Mary Todd and
others were discovered by Mary Alice in the National Archives and
other libraries in the  Washington  D.C. area and Illinois during
the past 35 years.  Ray Neff  (mentioned  in  another  Conspiracy
Nation segment on Lincoln) can confirm the life and times of Mary
Alice Kemery and she is also known as the late, great and popular
astrologer  Linda  Goodman  -  a very dear and personal friend of
mine.

I met Ray Neff on  several  occasions with Linda (Mary Alice) but
Ray is too narrow minded and scared to see and absorb  the  large
scope of Lincoln's real life and death.  Many persons (like Brian
Redman and Ray Neff) are too fearful to recognize and acknowledge
that  their  hero and icon named Lincoln was human and had sexual
and love desires like  any  normal  man and followed through with
those needs that resulted in a second  family.   Abraham  Lincoln
was  a normal mortal human being with talents and faults.  Honest
Abe was not a god or  a superman...  (and the reader's perception
hopefully begins to  tilt  and  sway  towards  reality  and  move
permanently  away  from  the  illusion and fiction created by the
powers that be, time and hero worship by the masses of comic book
like characters fashioned by writers and historians,,,)
 
The following is a combination  of  facts gathered by Linda (Mary
Alice), I and others over the years.  One  could  hire  the  best
fiction  writers  in  the world to make up a story but they could
not  invent  a  scenario  more  bizarre  than  the  Lincoln Saga.
Reality is much more fascinating, interesting and  thorough  than
the  limited  imaginations and creations of the very best fiction
writers.

The person born Abraham who became President of the United States
did  not  have  a last name at birth because his mother would not
identify the father.  The family  of  Abraham named him after the
town he was born in or they named him after the  town  where  his
family  was  from  -  Lincolnton,  North  Carolina  (the Kentucky
version of  Lincoln's  birth  is  a  spin  control  fabricated by
wishful thinking biographers).  Lincolton is a small town located
near a branch operation of the  Bank  of  England  known  as  the
Federal Reserve Bank that is privately owned and operated to this
day  in  Charlotte,  North Carolina.  (This bank has no automated
teller machines -  gee,  how  come?)   At  that time royalty from
Europe and the Rothschilds had family members living in the  area
around  Lincolnton  to  operate  and  manage  the privately owned
Federal Reserve Bank.   Abraham's  mother  was  a maid and nanny.
Was Abraham an illegitimate offspring of European royalty or  the
Rothschilds?    The   facts   and  evidence  indicate  his  royal
illegitimate birth.

To end the bloody hostilities, the founding fathers (most of them
Masons)  of  the   United   States   agreed  to  the  "temporary"
installation of a branch institution of the Bank  Of  England  in
1791  so  the  United  States could repay England (the Rothschild
family) for debts  occurred  during  the  Revolutionary War. This
secret institution was given a 20 year  charter  and  called  the
United  States  Constitutional  Bank.  To make sure this debt was
paid the Bank of  England  established  their  branch in the most
important area of the United States - Charlotte, North Carolina!!
Charlotte, North, Carolina????  Yes  Charlotte,  North  Carolina.
Why Charlotte????

Today  American history, geography and geology books omit one key
and crucial tidbit  of  information  -  The  world's largest gold
deposits in the  late  18th  century  were  around  the  town  of
Charlotte, North Carolina.  English Royalty, the Rothschilds, and
others controlled the gold and the bank that laundered the income
from  the  mines.  The Masonic Brothers of the United States gave
their Masonic Brothers of England "temporary" control of the gold
and the money laundering bank  to  pay  back the war debt and end
the bloodbath of the Revolutionary War. And remember  the  Golden
Rule  -  he who has the gold makes the rules.  And he who has the
gold can mold the public perception of realty.

When  the  charter  for  the branch bank expired Thomas Jefferson
(not a Mason) had enough votes  in Congress to block and deny the
extension of the agreement with the Bank of England in 1811.   In
1812  the Rothschilds sent troops that cut right through American
defenses like a  hot  knife  through  warm  butter and flawlessly
burned Washington D.C. as if the Capitol were a  summer  campfire
for marsh mellows and hot dogs.

Thomas Jefferson was given two choices:

1.   Have  his new country burned, crushed and tortured back into
colony status.  By this  time  the  British were crudely adept at
managing concentration camps (they taught the German  Nazis)  and
Jefferson  was  acutely  aware  of  the  whip,  rack and stockade
capabilities of his enemy.

2.  Remain  "sovereign"  (no  more  barbeques  or  skewers of the
nation's capitol) but renew the charter  for  the  United  States
Constitutional Bank for 50 years.

During  the war of 1812 many Americans had visually witnessed the
burning of their capitol  but  one  year later all Americans were
fried and very few United States  citizens  knew  they  had  been
roasted  on  a  golden  platter.   - In 1813 the bank charter was
renewed by the  U.S.  Congress  for  50  years  and the financial
institution was quietly and privately renamed the Federal Reserve
Bank.

Andrew Jackson tried  to  cancel  the  bank  charter  when he was
elected  President  but  his  term  in  office  was   short   and
"shameful".  [9] However, America was eventually allowed to store
some  of  the gold from the Charlotte area in Ft. Knox.  Have any
elementary school children or history Ph.D candidates in the past
50 years ever questioned where the gold in Ft Knox was originally
mined 20 to  50  years  before  the  gold  rushes in Colorado and
California?

As the  renewal  of  the  bank  charter  approached,  most of the
Northern politicians desired to extend  the  charter  while  most
Southern politicians opposed the existence of the Federal Reserve
Bank.   The  bank issue was one of the secret major causes of the
American Civil War yet  the  charter  prevailed when an extension
was granted in 1865 - only the Northern Politicians voted on  the
extension  because  the Southern politicians were involved in the
crash of the Confederacy  -  very  convenient for the Rothschilds
and English royalty.  After 1865 the charter  bank  was  publicly
called  The Federal Reserve Bank but privately owned and operated
by the Rothschilds , the  Bank  Of  England and the British royal
family.
 
The fast and steady rule over  the centuries is that only royalty
can have sex with royalty.  However,  most  if  not  all  of  the
illegitimate  children of royalty and their decedents are watched
over and taken care of no matter what race, nationality, religion
or  any  level  of  intelligence   including  Colin  Powell  -  a
descendant of King George II whose family is from  Jamaica.   Dan
Quayle  (he is the classic example of any intelligence level) and
George Bush are also decedents of King George II.  Hilary Clinton
is related to the Melons whose ancestors are English royalty.

After finishing law school Lincoln became a  circuit  lawyer  and
during  his  travels  he  was  encouraged  to  meet  and  have  a
relationship  with  an  illegitimate  child  of  King  Leopold of
Habsburg named "Elizabeth".  Remember,  only royalty has sex with
royalty and the affair between Liz and Abe was supported by  both
of  their  real yet secret families.  The birth of twin daughters
was the result of the long  term affair that took place while Abe
was traveling on horse back as a circuit lawyer and Mary Todd had
no awareness of her husband's royal sexual/ personal intercourses
and family.  Anyone married to Mary Todd would welcome some extra
nookie especially if it was free.

Lincoln was a virtual nobody before the Republican Convention  of
1860  and  all  of  sudden  he  became  a  very important person.
American history is full  of  unknown  private  citizens all of a
sudden  becoming  persons  of  power  and  wealth.   Rockefeller,
Morgan, Carnegie, Vanderbilt were all unknowns  who  had  instant
fame  and  fortune  overnight.  All of the aforementioned persons
started out as Trustees (bag  men) of money accounts for European
royalty and the Rothschilds.  They were not CEOs of any important
corporations  at  the  beginnings  of  their  instant  successful
careers.  But the sinister and cruel joke of these English  royal
court  jester  bag  men  was  (and  has been and still is) on the
American Public.  Lincoln was suppose to be a weak puppet bag man
of the powers that  be  because  of  his  ties  to royalty but he
surprised everyone with his desire to lead America to a new level
of independence.

The Trustee bag men  insured  that  the  private  owners  of  the
Federal  Reserve  Bank  could  operate  public utility companies,
corporations, universities,  foundations  and  other institutions
under the rat maze / smoke screen cloak of trusts - a  continuing
shell  and  con  game  set  up  to  confuse, befuddle and impress
politicians and the public.  However the key industry the Federal
Reserve Bank and the  Trustee  Bag Men immediately controlled was
all aspects related to railroads.  And  Lincoln  walked  and  was
elected  into  this  buzz  saw  of  lethal  high stakes financial
intrigue and deadly  international  funny  money operations.  But
not even  his  royal  family  ties  could  protect  him  when  he
challenged  the  will  and  desires  of the private owners of the
Federal Reserve Bank.

Lincoln is a hero because he tried to set the  United  States  of
America  on  a  new course of fiscal responsibility by having the
Treasury Department print money.   He  also rejected "loans" from
the Bank of England to the Union at  ridiculous  interest  rates.
[10]  Why  should have the Union utilized and been dependent upon
money  printed  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  located  in  the
Confederate state of North Carolina or loans from a foreign bank?
He placed the survival  of  the  United  States of America above,
beyond  and  over  his  secret  royal  family  ties  -  and  that
indirectly cost him his life.  But our school children  are  only
told  the fantasy of "Honest Abe" and not the reality of his true
patriotism, courage, honor and sacrifice.

The twin daughters were about eight years  old  when  Abe  became
President  -  He  was  having  friends take care of the daughters
because Elizabeth was too  distraught  about  the shame of having
children without a marriage and  she  departed  for  Europe  soon
after the births.

Lincoln  never  supported his mistress and illegitimate daughters
in the same manner  as  European  royalty supports their bastards
and that  really  ticked-off  the  Hapsburgs.   In  the  National
Archives are documents that detail an incident that occurred at a
White  House dinner in 1861.  A Prince from Hapsburg walked up to
Lincoln before the food  was  served  and  slapped Ol' Honest Abe
three times with a white  glove.   This  dramatic  action  was  a
challenge  for  a  pistol  duel  but  the President of The United
States only lowered his head  in  shame  as  he walked out of the
room and did not return to the dinner.

Also in the National Archives is a letter from a school child  to
Lincoln  asking  him  how  many  children  Abe  had.  In the last
sentence of his reply note to  the child Lincoln stated "I regret
to inform you that I  cannot  recognize  that  I  have  any  twin
daughters."  And a drug addicted, distraught, insane and rootin -
tootin  and  shootin  Mary  Todd  Lincoln  made  her husband, his
illegitimate daughters and the American public more regretful and
sorrowful than anyone could ever imagine.....

There is a second part to  the saga.  Lincoln arranged for one of
his daughters to be raised by an old law  school  buddy  who  was
from  a  wealthy cotton plantation family in South Carolina - His
name was Felix Turner  Hughes.   However Felix died shortly after
Lincoln's  daughter  arrived  and  a  relative  took   over   the
plantation  and  his  name was Felix Monroe Hughes.  Felix Monroe
raped and impregnated the daughter  of  Lincoln and she named the
child ......88 (what is the eighth letter in the alphabet).   AND
88's  LIFE  AND  CHILDREN  ARE  A PIVOTAL CORNERSTONE OF AMERICAN
HISTORY..... [11]

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
[1] Several errors appear in this  manuscript  by  the  anonymous
author.   It  is almost like those picture puzzles, "Can you spot
the  errors   in   this   picture?    (Answers   on   page  10.)"
Notwithstanding, it has some interesting ideas.

[2] "Mary Todd was left handed."  But Mary Todd  was  sitting  to
the *right* of Lincoln at Ford's Theater.

[3]  "That fact is in the National Archives."  Great.  *Where* in
the National Archives?

[4] "That fact is in the Library of Congress."   Great.   *Where*
in the Library of Congress?

[5] Reference to a federal reserve bank existing  in  1865.   The
federal  reserve we all know was not created until ca.  1913.  If
some other federal reserve is meant, that ought to be made clear.
If  the  anonymous  author  means  some  sort of *secret* federal
reserve, it ought to always be made clear.

[6]  The  anonymous  author  says  Booth  was  poisoned  in 1911.
Actually, the year was 1903, and it was suicide.   See  CN  3.91,
"Escape and Suicide of John Wilkes Booth."

[7]  "According to several documents in Washington DC libraries."
*What* documents?  *Which* libraries?

[8] Regarding Robert  Lincoln,  the  anonymous author neglects to
mention  that  this  same  Robert  Lincoln  was  present  at  the
assassinations of Presidents Garfield and McKinley.  Now that the
anonymous author has been made aware of this,  we  can  hopefully
look  forward  to  future  installments  of  his most interesting
ideas. 

[9] Andrew Jackson *did* successfully stop the  second  "Bank  of
the  United  States."   The  charter  was up for *renewal* in the
1830s, and Jackson succeeded in blocking it. 

[10]  Regarding  Lincoln's  printing  of  money  and  attempts by
bankers to extract hugely usurious (30  percent  interest)  loans
from  the Union:  TRUE.  Read all about it in upcoming, Dec. 1997
issue of  the  Conspiracy  Nation  Newsletter,  available to paid
subscribers.  (Visit http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html to find
out how to subscribe.)
   (Note to  paid  subscribers:   the  Nov.  1997  issue  of  the
newsletter  was  sent  out,  via  U.S. mail, today; you should be
receiving it soon.)

[11] Regarding cryptic reference to  "88" and "what is 8th letter
of alphabet":  8th letter of alphabet is "H," so I guess  we  are
supposed to intuit, "Hapsburg."

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

For related stories, visit:
http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html
http://feustel.mixi.net

-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  New mailing list: leave message in the old hollow tree stump.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 





