 
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 12  Num. 05
             =======================================
                     ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------

L.A. SECRET POLICE
==================

Mike Rothmiller  worked  in  a  top-secret  unit,  within the Los
Angeles Police Department (LAPD), known as the  "Organized  Crime
Intelligence  Division"  (OCID).   At the time he was a member of
that unit, the  average  person  did  not  know  it even existed.
After many years, Rothmiller finally left  the  LAPD  in  disgust
and,  with  the  help  of Ivan G. Goldman, wrote a book about his
experiences.  (*L.A. Secret  Police:   Inside  the LAPD Elite Spy
Network*. New York: Pocket Books, 1992. ISBN: 0-671-79657-7)

Rothmiller began as a rookie right out of the police academy  and
rose  to  the  rank of Detective assigned to the elite OCID unit.
He  began  to  have  problems  when  his  aggressive  pursuit  of
criminals led  him  higher  and  higher  into  the  top  ranks of
criminaldom.  There, he found himself encountering the footprints
of our old "friend," the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).   One
night,  an  assassin  on  a motorcycle tried to gun him down.  He
survived, but was  instructed  by  his  higher-ups  to keep quiet
about what he knew.  When they suspected that Rothmiller was  not
going  to  keep  quiet,  the  power of the L.A. secret police was
turned against him. Outraged, Rothmiller finally left the force.

Rothmiller's experience parallels  that  of  Mike Levine, another
crusader who, like Rothmiller, worked hard to combat  crime  only
to  discover  the  "Tweedledee/Tweedledum"  nature of the "crime"
game in America.   Levine  worked  as  a  Drug Enforcement Agency
(DEA) undercover agent and believed in what he was doing.  He put
his life on the line many times and helped put away drug dealers.
Yet when he nosed into the upper echelons of Dope, Inc., he began
to be stymied by his superiors at DEA.  "The drug war's a  sham,"
he   discovered,   and  quit  DEA  to  write  two  books  on  his
experiences: *Deep Cover* and *The Big White Lie*.

Rothmiller, after being trained  at  the  police academy, went on
patrol as a rookie with an experienced officer who showed him the
ropes.  He quickly learned that there was a police academy way of
doing things and there was a real way.  One of the  first  things
Rothmiller  had to do as an LAPD officer was become familiar with
the LAPD unofficial policy of "proactive policing."

Because of a below-average ratio  of police to citizens, with Los
Angeles police vastly outnumbered relative  to  ratios  in  other
cities,  LAPD  practices  an aggressive type of policing known as
"proactive policing."  So, for example, "If  a cop rolled up to a
burglary, saw a screen off  the  window  and  a  suspect  walking
across  the  lawn,  his  report  would  state  he saw the suspect
climbing out the  window...   Again  and again Rothmiller watched
cops decide for themselves who was guilty, and then weave a spell
over the arrest report to make it match their perceptions.   Most
of the arrest reports he encountered were doctored in some way --
facts deleted or invented."

Another  common  practice was to, in police slang, "stiff a call"
against a "mark."   If  police  suspected  an individual of, say,
dealing drugs, then rather than go through the trouble of getting
a search warrant "they would call the police  --  that  is,  they
would  call  themselves  --  with  a tip that a serious crime was
being committed  at  that  address."   Subsequently  a radio call
would send  police  to  that  address,  they  would  rush  in  to
supposedly  "save"  someone, and if they discovered illegal drugs
in the process, it was admissable evidence.

The Mafia code of *omerta*  --  silence  -- was also an unwritten
code for elite OCID officers.  Although, writes Rothmiller,  this
was  "enough  to  make  a good cop laugh.  Or cry," still, "these
were cops who knew how to keep their mouths shut."

Keep their mouths shut about what?  The OCID intelligence network
used illegal  wiretaps,  "bugs,"  informants  and surveillance to
accumulate massive, secret files on "politicians, union  leaders,
Hollywood stars, professional athletes, team owners, TV and print
journalists."    Yet  during  Rothmiller's  5-year  stint  in  an
ORGANIZED CRIME intelligence unit,  the  OCID "never arrested one
mobster. Not one."

An interesting sort of tribal initiation  ritual  is  related  by
Rothmiller,  describing  his  early rookie experiences.  It seems
all new officers must  "prove  themselves"  before they are fully
accepted.  The "proving" involves demonstrating that  you're  not
going  to take any crap from anyone, especially if they're black.
"Any probationer who had  yet  to  prove  himself would receive a
multitude of unsubtle reminders from his training officer that he
remained a fight virgin, a cherry who must still prove himself to
the blue grapevine."  One  night,  Rothmiller  and  his  training
officer  responded  to  a  report  of  a domestic dispute.  After
separating the husband and  wife,  the husband began mouthing off
to Rothmiller, saying things  like  "What  business  is  this  of
yours?"  and  even  slightly shoving him.  Rothmiller wasn't sure
what he should do.  He looked to his training officer who stated,
"I think it's time."  So Rothmiller  attacked the man, put him in
a chokehold, dragged him around and kneed him  in  the  back  and
kidneys.   "When  a  rookie  brought  in  his handcuffed proof of
passage, it was like a  hunter bringing in a twelve-point buck...
Within  hours,  everyone  in  the  station  knew  he  had  proved
himself..."

All this naturally leads into the O.J.  Simpson  case.   Forensic
pathologist  Cyril  Wecht,  in his book *Grave Secrets*, examines
physical  evidence   from   that   case.    According  to  Wecht,
world-renowned in his field, citing testimony by  colleague  Herb
MacDonnell,  "the  blood on [O.J. Simpson's] socks had not gotten
there as a result  of  a  natural  splatter, but had been applied
through 'direct compression.'  In  other  words,  the  blood  had
seeped  through  one  side of the sock onto the other side of the
sock, indicating that there  was  no  foot  in  the sock when the
stain was deposited."  When you add to  this  the  facts  that  a
small  vial  of  Simpson's blood, taken as a sample, was lost and
not accounted for; that the blood  on the socks contained EDTA, a
chemical preservative;  and  that  the  LAPD  is  noted  for  its
"proactive  policing";  the conclusion is obvious:  LAPD tried to
"frame" O.J. Simpson.

So "whodunnit?"  Dr.  Wecht,  after examining inconsistencies and
misnomers (now in the public consciousness thanks to biased media
reportage) in and surrounding the case,  thinks  "there  is  some
evidence   indicating  that  there  were  two  assailants  or  an
assailant with an accomplice."

"Feminist"-inspired hysteria surrounded the O.J. case.   A  smoke
screen  of  "O.J.  the  rotten  wife beater" was deployed to help
cover up the drug  connections  to  this  "trial of the century."
Puppetmaster of  the  "feminists"  is  the  Central  Intelligence
Agency,   which  has  long-since  infiltrated  and  now  controls
mainstream "feminism."  (See, e.g., "Gloria in Excelsis," a radio
broadcast by researcher Dave Emory.  Tape available from Archives
on Audio, PO Box  170023,  San  Francisco, or phone 415-346-1840.
See also CN 9.28 - CN 9.31.)

So we  have  a  high-profile  double-murder  case, with narcotics
connections (e.g. see CN 7.77, "Innocent Simpson,"  for  more  on
the  narcotics  background).   We  have  the  CIA, lurking in the
shadows.  We have a shady police  department.  Add to this a mass
media feeding frenzy and the potential exists for  very  unwanted
attention.

What  is  needed  is  a sideshow, some emotional hot-button issue
guaranteed to lead everyone away  from the drug connections.  So,
one day, CIA notices something:  "Say, what have we  here?   O.J.
was  arrested  once  for  wife-beating.   How about we put a huge
focus on that angle?   We'll  get  our  media assets and those we
influence to play this up big.  We'll get the 'feminist'  leaders
that  we  control to 'rally the troops.' Ha!  Ha!  Ha!  We'll get
them to  demand  'justice,'  that  the  dirty  'wife beater' gets
what's coming to him! Ha! Ha! Ha!" laughs CIA.

The  case was turned into a soap opera.  The "happy ending" would
have been that  O.J.  was  led  away  to  be crucified.  He would
atone, thereby, for the sins of all wife beaters by symbolically,
grandly, and famously paying for the crime.

But then there was a surprise ending.  O.J. climbed down off  the
cross and said, "No thanks."  Nonetheless, a massive appetite for
the  blood  of  O.J.  Simpson  had  been  created, and that unfed
appetite  screamed  to  be   satisfied.    So  we  saw  many,  on
television, subsequent to the "not guilty" verdict, going more or
less nuts.  Oprah Winfrey  had  to  hold  post-trial  talk-it-out
sessions  on  her television show.  The National Organization for
Women and their dupes held sanctimonious candlelight vigils.

It would be nice if the  LAPD, beneficiary of so many citizen tax
dollars, would honestly investigate the Simpson case.  That  way,
so-called  "conspiracy  theorists"  would  not need to rack their
brains for answers -- and  be mocked for their efforts.  Instead,
the LAPD, after the "not guilty" verdict was announced,  promptly
sat on their hands and said they would not investigate further.

I  don't  know  what  Mike  Rothmiller is up to these days.  Mike
Levine has a radio show via  which he continues trying to get the
truth to the American people.  And there are plenty of  basically
good cops who see what goes on and don't like it -- but, you see,
they  have  bills to pay and families to feed, so they keep their
mouths shut.  *Omerta*.

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

For related stories, visit:
http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html
http://www.netcom.com/~feustel

-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  New mailing list: leave message in the old hollow tree stump.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 




