 
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 12  Num. 50
             =======================================
                     ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------

RAYELAN RUSSBACHER MEETS "THE KING OF THE WORLD"
================================================

         Vignettes From My Life With Gunther Russbacher

              The Day I Met The King of The World

                     By Rayelan Russbacher

I met the King of the World in July of 1990.  I had been  married
to  Gunther  [Russbacher] about a year.  Gunther had been in jail
near St. Louis, the entire time.  I was in California.  I had not
seen Gunther since he had  been  arrested  two days after we were
married.

I arranged through a  film  company  with  whom  I worked, to buy
Gunther's life story for $40,000.  The prosecutor agreed to  take
the money and he released Gunther.

Gunther  and  I drove directly to Offutt Air Force base in Omaha.
We stayed in VIP quarters.   William  Webster, the DCI was on one
side of us.  Brent Scowcroft, the NSA, was  on  the  other  side.
George  Bush  was across the hall, and Dick Cheney was at the end
of the hall.

William Webster wore red shorts and a red Hawaiian shirt.

The meeting was to  upgrade  Gunther  on  his  SR 71 flying so he
could fly a mission to Moscow.  On the mission with Gunther were,
Brent  Scowcroft,  William  Webster,  Gunther's  boss,  the   DCO
(Director  of Covert Operations) an Admiral named Wilhelm Johann.
There was a fourth passenger, but Gunther would never tell me who
he was.

When they got to the Moscow  airport, there was no translator, so
Gunther had to do the translation.  He said there was an old  KGB
spy  who  was a friend, so he and Gunther did the translating for
the group.  The Russian delegation included Mikhail Gorbachev.

Gunther and  his  covert  group  of  high  ranking  United States
officials carried a treaty to Moscow for Gorbachev to sign.   The
day  of  this  flight  was July 26, 1990.  This was one day after
April Glaspie met  with  Saddam  Hussein  and  gave him the green
light to invade Kuwait.

The meeting on Offutt was from July 19 to July 22.

Gunther and his group left from  McCarren  Municipal  airport  in
Reno,  Nevada,  the afternoon of July 26, 1990.  I watched at the
edge of the runway  while  the  four  SR-71's came into McCarren.
Three were painted  in  desert  camouflage.   Only  one  was  the
standard  black  titanium.   Following the four 71's came a white
Learjet.

This was the same Learjet  that  Gunther  and I had taken when we
fled his "handlers" and flew to Reno to get married.  At the time
we took it to Reno, it was black, with red pin stripes.  While we
were staying on Offutt, William Webster called our room and  told
Gunther  to look out the window.  We were in a room that had full
view of the flight line.

We saw a white Learjet that looked just like our old "Blackbird."
I was listening on the  phone  when William Webster said, "That's
your old  plane.   We  painted  it  white  and  renamed  it  'The
Pigeon.'"

Gunther  shouted  some colorful words and banged the telephone on
the wall as if hitting Webster.   The sound of laughter came from
the room where Webster was staying.  It could  be  heard  through
the walls.  Gunther stormed out the door and went to pound on the
door of Webster's room.  I stood in our doorway watching it all.

"Let me in", I heard Gunther roar.

"You think we're crazy?" a voice replied.

"I'll  break  this  door down."  Gunther threatened.  "Let me in.
I'm going to pound you into toast."

At that moment, two men dressed in dark suits approached Gunther.
One said, "Captain, don't you think  you should go back into your
room before we have to get nasty?"

Gunther looked at them and walked back into  the  room,  slamming
the  door  behind  him.   He  went  back  to  the  wall adjoining
Webster's room, and pounded  on  it  again.  "Just wait, I'll get
you guys.  Your time is coming!"  Gunther yelled this at the  top
of  his  voice.  I could hear laughter and voices, but I couldn't
understand what they were saying.

Four SR 71's flew to Moscow,  only three came back.  One was left
in Moscow, with the pilot.  The other three flew back in a  close
wing pattern that registered on radar as one plane.

We left Offutt on  the  22nd  of  July  and  drove  non  stop  to
Winnemucca,  Nevada.   We  arrived at the Red Lion Hotel.  It was
about 2pm in the afternoon.   Gunther requested a specific ground
floor room near the front of the hotel..  Gunther and I had taken
turns sleeping as the other drove for a day and a half,  we  were
tired,  but  not  sleepy.   All  we  wanted  was  a  hot bath and
something to eat.

As we walked into the  room  Gunther  said,  "This is A CIA room.
Turn on the television.  There is a CIA training channel."

I followed his orders, and sure enough there was a  very  unusual
black  and white film.  "Watch that,"  Gunther ordered.  I sat on
the bed in front of  the  television.   He went into the bathroom
and took a hot bath.

In the film, there was a group of men sitting in a  circle  in  a
small  room.  I could not believe what I was seeing.  There was a
young William Webster,  along  with  a young Zbigniev Brezhinsky,
Stansfield Turner, Vernon Walters, and some I  didn't  recognize.
They were discussing how to enter homes while people were present
and search the home or plant listening devices.

There was a narrator to the film.  Instead of standing nearby and
telling us what was going on, the Narrator was in a 1961 Cadillac
convertible  and  he  was taking us for a tour of a CIA community
that had just been built  in  Florida.   The camera showed us the
names of all the street signs.  They all had names  that  sounded
like  sea creature from Greek legends.  The community had curving
and circular streets.  The  streets  were  set  up in such a way,
that no one could enter the community  without  being  seen,  and
they couldn't drive fast enough to do any damage and get away.

The  top  was down on the convertible and the driver's face could
be seen very well.   Behind  the  wheel  of the convertible was a
very young George Bush.  He was  the  narrator  of  the  training
film.

Bush  said that it was 1961, and a Catholic had just been elected
as President.  Because  of  this,  it  was  time to start selling
Catholic bibles door to door.

The next scene involved Jean Kirkpatrick as a leery housewife who
does not want to open her door to two  unknown  salesmen  selling
Catholic Bibles.

"What  are you?"  One of them asked, "An atheist?  Or do you just
hate Catholics?"

"No," Jean, the housewife protested.

"Then you won't mind letting us come in and show you this Bible."
The two men walked past her into the house.

One of them sat down in the living room and pulled out the bible.
He began the sales pitch.   The  other  man  asked for a glass of
water.  Jean, the housewife, started to get up and get  him  one.
He told her, "No...no, you sit right there and look at the pretty
pictures.  I can find a glass by myself."

The man with the Bible, mesmerized the housewife, while the other
man  did  whatever  it was that he had come into the house to do.
Gunther later told me  that  part  of  this  film was the implied
knowledge that a very powerful form of hypnosis was being  taught
to  CIA  operatives.  This powerful form of hypnosis was imported
from Nazi Germany after the war.  A watered down version of it is
called Neural  Linguistic  Programming.   Gunther  said he taught
this  Super  form  of  NLP  to  CIA  operatives  at  a school for
Operatives in Waco,  Texas  in  the  early  60's.  The school was
called The Life Management Institute, LMI.  William Sessions, the
former Director of the FBI was a councilman in Waco at the time.

The film was longer, but I suddenly became so tired I  could  not
stay  awake.   This  was about 230PM.  I awakened at midnight.  I
had slept almost 10  hours.   This  was  not  usual for me.  I am
lucky to sleep continuously for four hours at  a  time.   Gunther
wakes  up every hour on the hour to do a perimeter check.  But on
this afternoon, both of us slept for almost ten hours.

When we awoke, we  were  both  groggy.   Gunther said we had been
drugged.  I looked at my arm, and sure enough, there was  a  tell
tale  needle mark.  I did not remember anything about where I had
been or what I had done.

A few days after this, Gunther flew his mission to Moscow.  After
he came back,  we  drove  to  Castle  Air  Force  Base in Merced,
California.  We were told that Gunther was going to  be  promoted
to  Admiral and we were going to be given a post at Whidby Island
in Washington State.  Instead  of  this,  he was arrested and our
nightmare began again.

It was many months later that I ran into an  old  friend  that  I
trusted.  She was a hypnotherapist.  I told her about the missing
time and she suggested that we do a session.

Once she had gotten me into a relaxed state, she asked me to talk
about  everything  that  had  happened  from the time Gunther was
released from jail in St.  Charles,  Missouri  to the time he was
arrested on Castle Air Force Base by the FBI.

>From the relaxed state I was able to remember two men coming into
the room in Winnemucca and taking me out the sliding glass  doors
that  led  into  the  parking  lot.  I was dressed in white short
shorts and a sleeveless pink  blouse.   One  of the men grabbed a
pair of sandals for me.  They were not the kind of  sandals  that
you  would  wear  with shorts.  They were 2 and a half inch wedge
ankle straps.

When I got out of the  van  we  were  on a runway.  I saw Gunther
being led, as if in a trance, into a waiting plane.  I was  taken
to  a  helicopter.  The helicopter landed on a seemingly deserted
base somewhere in the  Nevada  desert.  The buildings looked like
they were vintage WWII.

I was taken into one of the buildings and put into a  chair  that
looked  like  a  dentists chair.  The man who was with me was the
CIA station chief from St.  Louis.   A  man  I knew as Roger.  He
looked at the arm where they were going to put  the  needle.   In
that  arm  I  had  a  rash  that  is called "Hoalie Crud".  It is
similar to athletes foot.  I don't know how or where I had picked
it up.  I had recurrent flare-ups.   Each time I had one, I would
have to go to the doctor for a prescription.  I  hadn't  had  the
time to see a doctor, so I still had the rash on my arm.

Roger  put  a piece of scotch tape on the rash.  He pulled it off
and gave it to a man.  The man left the room.  When he came back,
he had a swab that he handed  to Roger.  Roger swabbed my arm and
that is the last I remember of that episode.

The next thing I remember is climbing out of the top of a  vessel
that  looked  like  a  submarine.  It was in a concrete tunnel or
canal which could  have  held  water.   Or  there could have been
track under the vessel.  I was dressed in a pair of khaki  pants,
and  wearing a white polo shirt.  I had on the wedge sandals that
the man had picked up  for  me.   I  was with Gunther's boss, the
Admiral named Wilhelm or  William  Johann.   The  clothes  I  was
wearing  were  his.  He had worn them the night Gunther and I had
dinner with he and his wife in the Officers Club on Offutt.

The pants were way too long  for me.  Someone had taken the cuffs
and pulled them to one side and tied them up with rubber bands.

We were inside an underground base.  The men who were there  were
wearing  gray  uniforms  with  yellow  trim.  There were two huge
metal doors.  One was  directly  in  front of the submarine.  The
other was to the left of the sub.  There was a long tunnel to the
right of the Submarine that was filled with small cars like  golf
cars, going to and fro.

The  Admiral  pointed  to  the  huge  door to the left of us.  We
walked over to it.  There  was  a  smaller door cut into the huge
door.  There was a button to be pressed.  The Admiral pressed it.
"Why are we here?"  I asked

"The King of the World wants to meet you,"  The  Admiral  replied
sarcastically.

We  entered  a room that was a museum.  The glass cases where the
treasures were kept were incredibly low.   I am only 5 feet tall,
but the cases were so low that I had to stoop over  to  see  what
was in them.

Most of what was there had the Templar cross on it somewhere.  At
the  time,  I  can  remember  thinking, "so this is where all the
missing treasures are."   The  only  thing  I can really remember
seeing is the Crown of St. Stephen.

A door at the end of the room opened, and a  man,  about  5  feet
eight  inches  tall  entered.   He had white hair and was wearing
glasses with thick black rims.  He was wearing a light blue shirt
with an emblem on  it.   It  was  the  compass from the CIA logo,
stitched in dark blue.

He dismissed the Admiral as if the Admiral  were  a  busboy.   He
then  put his arm around me and led me out the door from which he
had come.  To the  right  of  me  I  saw  a mess hall filled with
hundreds of people.  To the left, I saw a long hall.  The King of
the World had his arm around my shoulders as we walked  down  the
long  hall.   He  was  talking  to  me the entire time.  I cannot
remember what he said.

And I do not remember anything  more  than the walk down the long
hall, with many doors.  The floor was gray  linoleum  tile.   And
that  is  the last thing I remember from my meeting with the King
of the World.  One thing I did recall very clearly, and it was my
only real proof that something  had  happened  to me.  The rash I
have does not tan.  If you have a tan, and then  get  the  proper
treatment  to  cure  the  rash, there will be a white spot in the
middle of you tan, where  the  rash  used to be.  When I awakened
from my missing time, there was a white spot where the rash  used
to  be.   I  guess  Roger  treated  the rash with the appropriate
medicine before he injected me with whatever he gave me.  Gunther
later told  me  that  I  was  privilege  to  too  many top secret
conversations on Offutt, and all they were doing was putting in a
block so I wouldn't remember anything.  I do remember  a  lot  of
the  conversations that happened at Offutt.  While I was there, I
had the feeling of  being  in  a  spy  movie.  For some reason, I
remembered an old film I had seen as a  child.   I  believe  John
Wayne  was  the star.  It was about a soldier who was captured by
the North Koreans  during  the  Korean  War  and was subjected to
brainwashing.  He had a book a matches with him, and he wrote key
things inside the book so they would jog his memory and keep  him
focused  on  what  was really going on.  I decided to do the same
thing.  I figured the only time I  was safe was when I was in the
stall in the ladies room.  I remember telling Gunther that I  had
a  urinary  tract  infection and it kept me going to the bathroom
all the time.   I  heard  him  tell  this  to  someone who became
suspicious as to why I kept excusing  myself  and  going  to  the
ladies  room.   Even  in  the ladies room I wasn't really sure if
anyone could see what  I  was  doing.   So  I  would bend over my
purse, as if hunting for  something,  and  I  would  write  short
keyword  notes  to  myself,  on  scraps  of chewing gum wrappers,
receipts, or anything else that was at the bottom of my purse.  I
wrote this while my hands were inside my purse.

I have a habit of going  through  my purse every six months or so
and throwing all the junk away.  But since  I  know  myself  well
enough to know that I write telephone numbers on scraps of paper,
I  have  to  go  through everything that is in the purse.  It was
about six months after I had  been  on Offutt Air Force Base with
Gunther that I went through my purse and discovered  the  cryptic
notes  I had written to myself in the ladies bathroom..  Each one
jogged my memory.   I  am  sure  there  are  still  things I have
forgotten, but I am also sure that I remember a lot that I am not
supposed to remember.  One of my  vignettes  will  be  about  the
UFO's  that  landed in the Persian gulf shortly before Kuwait was
invaded.  Another will be  about  the  12 million aliens that are
coming to earth.  These are conversations that I  overheard  from
Gunther's  cousin  Larry  Pauley,  A.K.A.  Robert  Steigler,  and
another  cousin  Garret  Henderson.   A man I later found out was
Richard Brenneke's half brother.  Gunther  told me that these two
men were killed in Cambodia in 1994 on a mission  to  rescue  the
last  of  the  POW's  that  came  out of SE Asia before Ron Brown
normalized relations with Viet Nam. All  the rest of our boys who
were left behind, were killed.

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

For related stories, visit:
http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html

-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  New mailing list: leave message in the old hollow tree stump.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 




