 
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 12  Num. 42
             =======================================
                     ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------

JONATHAN POLLARD AND THE PEACE ACCORD
=====================================

  "Mr. Skolnick:

  I was moving two boards in  the  garage over to the wall on
  the other side.  And I moved a big green bucket  and  found
  four  containers:  St. Mary's bag, yachting bag, brown bag,
  one other.  I had two  friends  here who helped me move the
  boards (cement boards) and saw this.  The  briefcase  brown
  bag had legal files in it, for my case.  These were removed
  in the last few weeks to a month.

                             (signed) Jonathan Pollard, GYR."

The  above  cryptic  message,  purportedly  written  by  Jonathan
Pollard,  will  be interpreted later, in this issue of Conspiracy
Nation.  But before  doing  this,  it  is  necessary to give some
background to the Pollard case.  Also,  incidentally,  Conspiracy
Nation  extends  best  wishes  to  both parties, Palestinians and
Israelis, that the most hopeful news of their recent peace accord
will bear fruit and that this accord will truly lead to peace.

Conspiracy Nation  has  covered  the  deeper  implications of the
Jonathan Pollard story for years now.  In attempting to summarize
all the information, the problem is -- where to begin?  The story
goes much deeper than just "Pollard:  A Spy Who Got Caught."   It
begins   with   the   OCTOBER   SURPRISE,  moves  from  there  to
IRAN-CONTRA, involves the  late  VINCE  FOSTER,  and includes the
classic series of articles written by  J.  Orlin  Grabbe:   "NSA,
Foster,  and  Bank Transactions Spying," as well as the connected
series, "Fostergate", written by ex-Forbes Magazine senior editor
James Norman.  (Grabbe's multi-part  series  is obtainable at the
Conspiracy Nation website:

              http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html

Go  back  to mid-1980.  American citizens were being held hostage
by Iran.  If President Jimmy  Carter could somehow have freed the
American hostages, his hopes to  be  re-elected  president  would
have  been  improved.   But  George  Bush and others connected to
Ronald Reagan worked  out  a  deal  to  delay  the release of the
American hostages; they feared an "October Surprise":  an October
1980 release of the hostages might boost Carter's approval rating
and get him re-elected.  So the Bush-Reagan forces  secretly  met
with  the  Iranians and negotiated that the American hostages not
be released until after  the  election.   In return, the Iranians
received money and  the  promise  of  future  weapons  shipments.
Involved  as  middlemen in the negotiations and eventual transfer
of weaponry to Iran were the Israelis.

Best now is to  resurrect  portions  of past issues of Conspiracy
Nation (CN):

==  CN  4.82:   "The ramifications of the Systematics story could
bring down the Clinton presidency.  Just prior to Foster's death,
Hillary reportedly told  Foster  that  his  spying for Israel was
known; that he was about to be indicted on charges  bordering  on
treason, making him another Jonathan Pollard."

== CN 5.39:  "Now the medium-sized newspaper  that  was  --  they
have  about  300,000  circulation.   And  they  were  supposed to
publish, probably, one of the  most important stories of my life:
the fact that White House aide Vincent Foster, jr.  --  according
to  the  report  --  was involved in stealing and selling nuclear
secrets of the United States,  together  with a known spy who has
since been punished and sent away for a very long time  to  jail.
But  during  this  other  person's  trial,  there  was  a 'Mr. X'
mentioned, and never identified.   That, apparently, was Foster."
(CN Interview with Sherman Skolnick, 6/30/95)

== CN 5.40:  "But were the story to be distributed worldwide,  on
a  big  basis  (which was my original intention), then this other
spy that's been sent  away  for  the  rest  of his life, Jonathan
Pollard, they most likely would have  to  re-open  his  case  and
bring  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton  to  some  kind  of  a  trial, or
investigation, upon  the  re-opening  of  the  case,  in  that it
appears, from this secret, government report,  that  Hillary  and
the  late Foster were involved in treason on the highest level in
the history of the  United  States."   (CN Interview with Sherman
Skolnick, 6/30/95)

==  CN  5.45:   "Mr. Grabbe, a journalist of some sort (to divert
myself for  a  moment),  contends  that  Jim  Norman's  story was
squelched because the publisher emeritus [of Forbes Magazine] (in
other words, the sort of semi-retired [unclear] but still  there)
is  Caspar  Weinberger,  who's involved with the Pollard case and
therefore has got a  conflict  of interest.  But anyway, Norman's
story, which he couldn't get published,  called  'Fostergate'  (I
have  a  copy,  too)...  But that's a very, a *much* watered-down
version of  the  secret,  government  report  that  I have."  (CN
Interview with Sherman Skolnick, 7/4/95)

== CN 5.46:  "Now, what is this all about?   I  started  to  tell
*Spotlight's*   people   that   a   *further*  segment  that  I'm
abstracting from  the  secret  report  deals  with  the fact that
[Vince] Foster did *not* release the documents to Pollard on  his
own.   He did it upon the authority of Vice-President George Bush
and Secretary  of  Defense  Caspar  Weinberger.   Those  that may
recall the Pollard case know that Caspar Weinberger  so  much  as
said  that,  if  there  was  a  law  authorizing the rope and the
gallow, that he wanted Pollard put to the gallows."
    "But Israel got involved in the October Surprise,  okay?   So
there's this relationship:  Bush-Caspar Weinberger-Israel-Foster.
Foster  was  not an independent force.  Nor was Pollard.  Pollard
was at the bottom of  the  thing.   The other reason is, they did
not want to know.  I started to tell  *Spotlight's*  people  that
other  segments of my story, based on the secret report (which is
upwards of 50 pages), deals  with Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of
Defense, and Vice-President Bush,  in  the  '80s,  more  or  less
supervising  Foster  and more or less letting Foster know that it
was 'O.K.' to  release  these  secret  documents to Pollard.  And
Pollard, apparently, made them available to Israel.  But in other
words, the whole chain of situations.  And apparently, Foster was
the 'Mr. X' mentioned in hearings on the Pollard case.   However,
other people believe that it was an American, Jewish businessman.
I don't believe it.  I believe that 'Mr. X' or 'Mr. Y' or 'Mr. Z'
--  mystery people in the Pollard case, not previously identified
-- included Foster, Caspar  Weinberger  the Secretary of Defense,
and George Bush the Vice-  President.   So  if  anyone  committed
treason, it was Weinberger, who *was* born a Jew but converted to
another  religion,  and George Bush, who was fighting around with
Israel.  And, the story  is  incomplete  and  unfair, and I don't
think they want to know about the Caspar Weinberger, George  Bush
connection  *to*  Foster  to Pollard.  Because it would mean that
the other ones,  higher  up,  are  moreso  guilty of treason than
Pollard was."  (CN Interview with Sherman Skolnick, 7/4/95)

== CN 5.49:  "Foster, Bush, Weinberger -- and Pollard" by Sherman
H. Skolnick:  "Remember the 'October Surprise'?  That was  secret
dealings  in  October  1980 by vice presidential candidate George
Bush, to delay release  of  the  American  hostages held by Iran.
Purpose:  to  screw  Jimmy  Carter's  bid  for  re-election.   Of
course,  Israel  was  brokering  the  deal to arm Iran in its war
started in 1980 against Israel's bloody enemy, Iraq."
    "In later  years,  Bush  owed  Israel  a  favor.   So  he and
Secretary of  Defense  Caspar  Weinberger  authorized  Foster  to
release  top  nuclear  missile  secrets  to  Israel -- used was a
pliable analyst in  the  Office  of  Naval Intelligence, Jonathan
Pollard."
    "The purpose was to make Israel a nuclear power before  their
own  research  would have.  Sort of a buffer against the Soviets.
It was a  violation  of  the  espionage  laws,  and when the deal
unraveled, Pollard was made the patsy and  got  life  in  prison.
Weinberger,  secretly himself in arms smuggling, demanded Pollard
get the gallows or the firing squad."
    "A new inquiry into the Jonathan Pollard affair may blow open
the whole mess."

== CN 5.54:  "Secret Report Links Foster to Pollard"  by  Sherman
Skolnick:   "The  Clinton's  close crony, Vincent W. Foster, Jr.,
was being tracked as a possibly traitorous spy assisting Jonathan
Pollard, long before Foster's  position  as deputy counsel in the
Clinton White House, a secret government report states."
    "Surveilled under orders of a clandestine court meeting in  a
soundproof  facility  in the beltway area, Foster had coded Swiss
and other  accounts  ostensibly  put  there  for  him  by Israeli
intelligence.  Deposits at Foster's account at one  bank  on  the
Swiss-Italian  border,  at Chiasso, Banca Della Svizzera Italiana
-- and accounts elsewhere -- held  at times between 2, and 7, and
as much as 10 million dollars between them,  the  report  states.
The  deposits were put there ostensibly for Foster's co-operation
with  'the  institute',  the   Mossad.    Foster  may  have  been
blackmailed or tricked, however, by way of the existence of these
accounts to supply top-most U.S. secrets to Israel  and  to  work
jointly  with  Jonathan  Pollard, now serving a life sentence for
spying for Israel, and  to  work  jointly  with Robert Maxwell, a
high-level Mossad official under  cover  of  being  a  publisher.
Others may likewise be blackmailing Israel."
    "A  federal  agency  finally commissioned current and retired
intelligence agents to  put  together  a  report  on Foster never
supposed to be referred to or see the light of day.  The  report,
under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which authorizes
the clandestine court in Baltimore, shows among other events:"
    "--  Foster,  as spy chief, assisted Pollard at the Office of
Naval Intelligence and  elsewhere,  or  directly caused others to
assist Pollard, to get great amounts of the  highest  level  U.S.
secrets  on  nuclear  weapons,  including tracking and targetting
details and satellite co-ordinating codes and data."
    "-- that Foster assisted  Pollard,  or directly caused others
to assist Pollard -- both Foster and Pollard apparently were paid
for this -- through the use of PROMIS software and  other  means,
to  supply Israel with such data long before Israel had developed
its own proficiency in the same field."
    "-- in so doing, Foster  enabled  Israel to be perceived as a
genuine nuclear threat to the Soviet Union."
    "-- that the so-called 'publisher' Robert Maxwell assisted in
these joint efforts.  (When Maxwell  died  mysteriously,  he  was
buried  with  top  honors  as  if  he  were  the  head of Israeli
intelligence.)"

== CN 5.55:  "Secret Report Links  Foster to Pollard (Part 2)" by
Sherman Skolnick:
    "Part of the deal -- called treasonous by some  Americans  --
was  to secretly ship arms to Iran, by way of Israel, starting on
or about February, 1981,  or  even  earlier.  Some of the weapons
and supplies were taken from  NATO  supplies  stored  in  various
places in Western Europe."
    "Thus   developed   a   secret  linkage  between  the  Reagan
administration and  Israel.   U.S.  Secretary  of  Defense Caspar
Weinberger himself reportedly had a  financial  interest  in  the
weapons  business.   As  later  became clear, Vice-President (and
later  as  President)  George  Bush  at  the  same  time received
personal financial benefits from arms sent from the U.S. to Iraq.
Part of the Saddam Hussein/George  Bush  private  joint  business
ventures,  as  secret  partners,  were  part  of  suppressed bank
records in the Chicago federal  court case involving stopping the
release of records of Banca  Nazionale  Delavoro  [BNL],  Italy's
largest  bank  owned in part by the Vatican.  This author was the
only  journalist  reporting  on  the  federal  court proceedings,
particularly the federal appeals court."

== CN 5.83:  "But the point is, he hinted  at  things  that  were
already in my story ['Foster, Bush, Weinberger -- And Pollard' by
Sherman  H.  Skolnick; see CN 5.49] and which [James] Norman knew
about.  Namely, that Weinberger  and  [George] Bush were involved
with Vincent W. Foster, Jr., the White House aide; that before he
got into the White House, Foster was an NSA  official,  and  with
the  help  of Weinberger and Bush had released nuclear secrets to
Pollard, who gave 'em to Israel for money."  (Sherman Skolnick)

== CN 5.98: (Interview with Sara McClendon, 8/30/95): 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
What about Jonathan Pollard?  Is Pollard just a bit player in all
this?  Like, he took the fall for this?
SARA McCLENDON:
Pollard is a very strange person.  And I understand, I think it's
about September the 12th that there's a hearing  for  Pollard  (I
think  in  Washington);  a parole hearing.  And Pollard's friends
think he's gonna be out of prison by November.
CONSPIRACY NATION:
It's almost like they had to find *somebody* to be guilty for it.
And so they just took him to  be the one as the scapegoat for all
this.
SARA McCLENDON:
That's apparently right.
I think we have yet to find out  some  cause  to  all  this.   We
should  follow  the  Foster  investigation  so thoroughly that we
finally get back to Bush and  Weinberger and find out what really
happened!

== CN 6.08:  "General Colin Powell -- Is He Mr. Clean" by Sherman
Skolnick:  "ITEM:  About 1985, VINCENT W.  FOSTER,  Jr.  was  the
secret link between Bush & Weinberger and JONATHAN POLLARD, a low
level  Naval Intelligence analyst.  Foster, on behalf of the vice
president and defense  secretary,  arranged  for  Pollard to take
large quantities of nuclear launch code secrets right out of  one
of the intelligence agencies and turned over to a foreign power."
    "From  1983  to 1993, Foster was the equivalent of a military
general in the  super-secret  NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, including
the few months he was Clinton White House deputy counsel."
    "Only Pollard himself was blamed  for  this  treason.   At  a
hearing,  Weinberger,  to  cover  up  his  own complicity, wanted
Pollard to get the gallows or the firing squad.  Pollard got life
in prison.   Bush  &  Weinberger  belong  moreso  in  prison than
Pollard.  Weinberger reportedly had or has a secret Swiss account
with the blood money."

== CN 6.46:  (By Sherman Skolnick, 11/9/95):   "George  Bush  and
Caspar Weinberger pressed Foster into service as the middleman to
release nuclear missile launch codes and tracking data to Israel:
the   *highest*  U.S.  secrets.   They  used  a  low-level  Naval
Intelligence analyst, Jonathan Pollard,  who  sold the secrets to
Israel to keep up his own high  lifestyle.   They  helped  Israel
jump  ahead  with  their  own  nuclear  development  and become a
'Mideast bulwark' against the Soviets."
    "Some claim Israel set  up  accounts  of millions of dollars,
for  Foster,  in  banks  in  Switzerland  and  the  Caymans.    A
beneficiary  was  Hillary Rodham Clinton.  Either it was true, or
the NSA created false records to blackmail Foster and Hillary, as
well as Israel, into silence."
    "Now look at the timetable:   1986,  a year after Pollard was
caught, the prime minister of Sweden, Olof Palme,  wanted  to  go
public on how a major Swedish weapons maker, Bofors, was involved
in the October Surprise and what later was called the Iran-Contra
scandal.   Palme  was  assassinated, and it was blamed on a 'lone
assassin' who was caught but  later released.  The murder remains
an unsolved mystery."
    "Israeli prime minister, Itzhak Rabin, wanted to  go  public,
once  and  for all, with details explaining away Israel's role in
October Surprise,  Iran-Contra,  and  the  Jonathan Pollard mess.
Rabin, like Olof Palme, was assassinated.  And it was blamed on a
lone assassin (or a small group of nobodys, as plotters)."

== CN 6.57: (Interview with Sherman Skolnick):
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Reuters  NewMedia  carries  an  article  ["U.S.  Weighs   Israeli
Citizenship  Move  on Spy", Wednesday, November 22, 1995, 7:13 AM
EST], sent to me by a CN reader, stating, in part:

  During his last trip to Washington in September, Israeli 
  Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, assassinated this month, said 
  he hoped [Jonathan] Pollard would be released and allowed to 
  go to Israel. But President Clinton rejected the request."

SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
[Skolnick claims they were quiet about this until  after  Rabin's
death.]  It  sort  of  exposes  the  Bush-Weinberger  connection.
Because   if  [Pollard]  gets  his  Israeli  citizenship  and  is
transferred to Israel, he may be  released there and he may begin
speaking openly that he was the 'low man on the pole' and  [that]
[Vince] Foster and others were involved.
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Do you still see Vatican involvement? [e.g., see CN 6.45]
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
The Vatican and the western bankers are the ones that put up  the
money   for   the   deal   with  the  PLO  [Palestine  Liberation
Organization].  And some Israelis  were  joking a little too loud
-- because others heard it -- about,  somewhere  down  the  road,
after  they had taken the money, that they may renege on the deal
and get the land back.  And so, maybe that was one of the reasons
for killin' him.

==  CN  6.77:   (By  Sherman  Skolnick,  12/14/95):   "Item:  The
Jonathan Pollard case.  George Bush as Vice-President and  Caspar
Weinberger as Secretary of Defense made an arrangement with a top
official  of the National Security Agency, Vincent W. Foster, Jr.
Bush and  Weinberger  owed  Israel  a  favor  left  over from the
'October Surprise' when Israel trans-shipped U.S. weapons to Iran
which agreed to delay release of the hostages to help install the
Reagan-Bush  ticket.   Foster  was  the  middleman  in  releasing
nuclear missile secrets to Israel by way  of  a  low-level  Naval
Intelligence  analyst, Jonathan Pollard, who got life in jail for
the deal and the  matter  was  closed  up.   When he got into the
Clinton White House in '93, Foster wanted Clinton  to  'blow  the
whistle'.  Foster was assassinated to shut his mouth."

== CN 6.83:  (From  The  Japan  Times Weekly, 12/2/95, by Sherman
Skolnick):  "The Israeli radio journalist, who  had  predicted  a
bloodletting  at  Mossad,  had  called  the  Chicago investigator
because  that  morning's  edition  of  The  Washington  Post  had
published  a  front-  page  article  listing  some  of Skolnick's
allegations about the connection between the mysterious death  of
White House vice counsel Vince Foster and its connection with the
Jonathan Pollard spy case as well as other scandals involving the
Israeli intelligence service Mossad."
    "The  links  between  the  Rabin  assassination  and Foster's
possible murder shed  light  on  the infighting between different
factions of the  CIA  and  Mossad,  which  intensified  following
revelations  of  secret  transfers  of U.S. nuclear technology to
Israel, covert military dealings with Saddam's Iraq and Ayatollah
Khomeini's Iran, and the alleged delay in the release of American
hostages in Tehran, which enabled  Ronald  Reagan to win the 1980
presidential election.  The  murder  of  the  leader  of  Islamic
Jihad,   just   weeks  before  Rabin's  assassination,  certainly
indicates that rogue Mossad operatives have been working overtime
to destabilize the Mideast peace process."

== CN 8.48 (By "Ru Mills") "The scenario for Hillary's demise had
been laid months ago.  Rumors  have  been fed into the rumor mill
that she and Vince Foster were lovers.  DNA analysis of the hairs
found in Vince Foster's underwear show that they match Hillary's.
Other sources, rumored to be allied with the CIA, have  published
articles  stating  that Hillary and Foster have been Mossad moles
within the National Security Agency for years.  Foster is said to
have sold  Israel  the  codes  used  by  the  President to launch
nuclear missiles.  A rogue group within the CIA is said  to  have
uncovered  Foster  and his partner in the White House.  According
to the same article, this group  of Rogues drained the Swiss bank
accounts of Foster.  All of this is supposed to make  the  public
think  that  Foster was just about to be exposed as an agent of a
foreign government.  When Jonathan Pollard was discovered selling
secrets to the  Israelis,  he  was  sentenced  to life in prison.
Could Foster expect any less?  Not wanting to heap shame and ruin
upon his family, he chose the noble way out..."

==  CN  8.66:   ("Getting  on  the White House 'Enemies List'" by
Sherman Skolnick):  "And while you are at it, say that Foster was
the mysterious Mr. X or Mr.  Y  in the Jonathan Pollard spy mess.
And that Foster arranged for Pollard, a low-level naval  analyst,
to  get  nuclear  missile  tracking  secrets to give to a foreign
power.  That Foster did  this  on  behalf  of then vice president
George Bush and Caspar Weinberger, Secretary of  Defense  in  the
Reagan  administration.   The  foreign  power, Israel, was owed a
favor by Bush  for  their  role  in  aiding  Bush in the 'October
Surprise,' delaying the release of the U.S. hostages in  Iran  so
as  to  wreck Jimmy Carter's bid for re-election as president and
to put in the Reagan/Bush ticket.  (Israel was the go-between for
U.S. weapons to Iran,  and  Iran  delayed release of the hostages
until a few minutes after  Reagan's  inauguration  as  president,
1981.)"

== CN 9.02 ("The Secret Report  and the Death Warrant" by Sherman
Skolnick):  "Surveilled  under  orders  of  a  clandestine  court
meeting in a sound-proof facility in the Beltway area, Foster had
coded  Swiss,  Grand  Cayman,  and other accounts, ostensibly put
there for him, with  Hillary  Rodham  Clinton as a beneficiary to
the accounts, by Israeli intelligence.  Deposits at the purported
Foster accounts at one bank on the Swiss-Italian  border  --  and
accounts  elsewhere -- held at times between 2, 7, and as much as
10 million dollars between them, the report outlines."
    "The  deposits  were   put   there  ostensibly  for  Foster's
co-operation with 'the institute,' the Mossad.  Foster  may  have
been  blackmailed  or  tricked,  however,  by way of the apparent
existence of these accounts  to  supply  top-most U.S. secrets to
Israel and to work jointly with the low-man on  the  intelligence
totem  pole,  Jonathan  Pollard,  later  sent  to  jail on a life
sentence for supposedly spying  for  Israel;  and to work jointly
with Robert Maxwell, a high-level Mossad official under cover  of
being  a  publisher.   And,  of  course,  others  may likewise be
blackmailing Israel."

== CN 9.52 ("Great  Britain:   Puppet-Master of Israel?") "On the
other hand, Zionists need not  be  Jews.   Zionism  is  simply  a
homeland  in  the  middle  of  all  the  rest.   Britain  set  up
trans-Jordan  (now  called  Jordan) and Palestine to irritate the
Arabs and keep them off-balance for the oil business.  That's the
reason that  they  allowed  Jonathan  Pollard,  with  the help of
[Vince] Foster, to give 'em the nuclear  missile  secrets.   Why?
So  that  Israel  could  threaten  not  only  the  Arabs, but the
Soviets."
    "Do  you  see  the   point?    Israel   started  out  with  a
million-and-a-half people (they've got 5  million  now),  they're
surrounded  by  50  million  Arabs.  How do you control all these
Arabs?  Put the so-called  'Zionists'  in  the middle to irritate
them.  And you give them the nuclear stuff.  Nobody  points  this
out.   Because,  when  anyone  points  this  out, they says, 'Oh!
You're a renegade Jew.'  They go  after you -- the Amy Zisooks of
the world -- they go after you.  Why?  They  don't  want  'family
secrets' to be dragged out." (Sherman Skolnick)

== CN 12.38 (by "Ru Mills"):  "Evidently there is more behind the
'release   of  Pollard'  than  meets  the  eye.   No  sooner  had
newspapers around the  world  printed  the  story of his release,
than other articles appeared stating that the 'release' story was
'planted.'"
    "My conspiracy mind says that  someone  is  playing  hardball
with someone else, and Jonathan Pollard is a pawn in the game."
    "If  Pollard was connected to Vince Foster, as some say, then
Jonathan Pollard could  be  the  weak  link  in the Clinton chain
fence of obfuscation and denial."

This Is A Developing Story
--------------------------
The  Pollard case has so many interconnections with so many other
matters that a succinct summary is nowhere near finalization.  It
is part of "The Octopus" (see, e.g., *The Octopus* by Kenn Thomas
and  Jim   Keith.    (Portland:    Feral   House,   1996.   ISBN:
0-922915-39-3)) 

But going back to the cryptic message received today  (10/23/98),
purportedly written by Jonathan Pollard, here is how Mr. Skolnick
(with   help  from  "Rhea  Fortean"  (pseudonym))  deciphers  its
meaning: 

  "I was moving two boards in  the garage over to the wall on
  the other side."

(Garage is where grimy work  gets  done.  "Two boards" are Arafat
and  Netanyahu(?).   "The  wall"  is  "The   Wailing   Wall"   in
Jerusalem.)
  
  "And I moved a big green bucket and found four  containers:
  St. Mary's bag, yachting bag, brown bag, one other."

("Green" -- money -- bucket.  Contributions of money from Vatican
(St.  Mary),  British  (yachting;  Britania rules the ocean), CIA
(brown bag), and one other.)

  "I  had  two  friends  here  who  helped me move the boards
  (cement boards) and saw this."

("Two  friends"  are   Bill   and  Hillary  Clinton(?)   "Cement"
indicates danger, such as "cement overcoats"(?))
  
  "The  briefcase  brown  bag  had  legal files in it, for my
  case.  These  were  removed  in  the  last  few  weeks to a
  month."

(Suppression  of information(?)  Pollard no longer able to finger
Weinberger et al.(?))

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

For related stories, visit:
http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html

-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  New mailing list: leave message in the old hollow tree stump.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 





