 
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 12  Num. 32
             =======================================
                     ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------

SWISSAIR FLIGHT 111: Accident or Sabotage? 
==========================================
Part of Murder Plot Against Al Gore?
------------------------------------
By Sherman H. Skolnick
                                      
One of the most suppressed  subjects of aviation and elsewhere is
"The  History of Airplane Sabotage".  In 1973, I wrote and sought
to have published a book  by  that  title.  It was stopped in the
print cycle and never available in book form.  At the time, every
airline wanted to hang me, including United Air Lines, the parent
firm of which had then as its largest stockholder the Rockefeller
family.
   
Among the topics in the book was a documented study of United Air
Lines FLIGHT 553  (see  "Everything  Is  Under Control" by Robert
Anton Wilson), which pancaked  just  short  of  Chicago's  Midway
Airport, one month after Nixon was re-elected President, in 1972.
Murdered by way of the sabotaged disaster, or later killed on the
ground  by  an  elite FBI team, were 12 Watergate figures on that
flight, including Dorothy Hunt, wife of the Watergate burglar, E.
Howard Hunt.
   
On  a  separate,  paid-for  first class seat right near her, Mrs.
Hunt had a suitcase with two  million dollars in money orders and
cashier's checks, traceable to  Tricky  Dick  [Nixon].   (To  aid
blackmailers,  the  suitcase  was  stolen  from the crash site by
mobsters specializing in airline  baggage  thefts, and re-sold on
the blackmarket for 5 million dollars, above the  face  value  of
the  securities inside the suitcase.  Nixon or his cronies had to
buy back the contents for a huge price.  The reputed thieves, the
Joseph Sarelli gang, were later  silenced by being prosecuted for
an unrelated airline baggage theft of  great  valuables.   Having
already investigated the Sarelli gang, I was the only reporter at
the trial.)
   
Mrs.  Hunt,  among  other  things, was the courier of Nixon White
House "hush money", conveyed to witnesses who knew too much about
Nixon's   grab   to  be  an  Imperial  President.   Her  husband,
reportedly himself in  some  way  linked  to  the  conspiracy  to
assassinate President John F. Kennedy, had reportedly blackmailed
Nixon on his role in or near  Dallas  in  November,  1963,  Nixon
being part of  a  high-level  group  meeting  on  a ranch outside
Dallas to arrange and supervise the hit.
   
The motive for blowing out JFK's brains?   The  oil  monopolists,
the secret political police  like  FBI  and CIA, aided by Chicago
gangsters  assisting  CIA,  perceived  JFK as a closet Communist.
(He was not.) Wiping him out was thought to be "patriotic".
   
Because of threats of harm  against  us  by FBI, to stop our work
uncovering foul play in the Watergate Plane Crash, including that
we  had  "liberated"  the entire government file of 1300 pages of
documents and pictures supporting our contention of  sabotage,  I
and an associate of mine fled to Canada where we sought political
asylum.  The worldwide publicity of our plight, however,  enabled
me to safely return to Chicago, my lifelong residence.
   
Since  1963  I  have  been  the founder and chairman of Citizen's
Committee to Clean Up the Courts, investigating, researching, and
seeking to disclose  certain  instances  of  judicial bribery and
political murder.  For an example, since the early 1970s  we  had
been studying what was labeled the Phoenix Project, assassination
of supposedly key persons among civilians in Viet Nam. Headed  by
Director of Central Intelligence William Colby, it was a training
apparatus how to snuff out dissidents.  Also called Pegasus, they
had groups of killers trained  in specific methods of murder.  In
the 1980s, officers of the Office of Naval Intelligence, assigned
to  CIA,  were  part of "Operation Clydesdale".  Their specialty?
Murder disguised as something else,  such  as  so-called  vehicle
"accidents".  That is, arranging to push a target in a car into a
culvert, like the  murder  of  Karen  Silkwood, a plutonium plant
worker who  wanted  to  publicize  dangerous  methods,  violating
safeguards.  She was snuffed out on the way to meeting a New York
Times  reporter.   (Remember my story, "Reporters and Assassins";
i.e. their interrelation.)
   
A key operative of "Operation Clydesdale", Gunther K. Russbacher,
was,  in  effect,  being  thrown away by his bosses.  Although he
said he was a Naval Intelligence Commander, his bosses, by way of
being rid of a deep cover  operative like him, had him labeled in
the press as  a  "con  man".   He  was  jailed  in  Missouri  for
basically  operating  an espionage money laundry, where huge sums
appeared and disappeared.
   
Some  who  knew  a  lot  about  Russbacher concluded he was being
parked in jail to protect him from the associates of those he and
his teams murdered.   His  work  included  wiping out pedophiles,
porno kings, dissidents, and "enemies of the state", perceived as
being too time consuming and cumbersome to  prosecute  by  lawful
methods.   Acting  as  both judge and jury, convincing themselves
their work was "patriotic",  they  believed some of their targets
had too much money to be easily put in prison.  So Russbacher and
others saved the time and money of government prosecutors, taking
it  upon  themselves to cancel the Constitutional rights of their
targets, and had  the  targeted  vehicles  pushed  off cliffs, in
front of trains, into trees, or some assassination less ordinary.
   
Their type of  teams  consisted  of  covert operatives, American,
British, and some Israeli contract killers, CIA, Office of  Naval
Intelligence,  MI-6,  Division  Five  (FBI Counter-Intelligence),
aides to the Mossad (Israeli intelligence), and others.
   
While  he  was  in prison in Missouri in 1993, a lawyer friend of
ours  volunteered  to  seek to defend Russbacher on the "con man"
charges.   Spending about four months, interviewing Russbacher in
jail, the lawyer made some 58 audio tapes,  promising  Russbacher
not to reveal the same  but nevertheless making them available to
our research and investigation group.
   
That lawyer, Paul Wilcher, took up residence in the  District  of
Columbia  thereafter,  and confronted Attorney General Janet Reno
with a lengthy written report  of various crimes committed by the
U.S. government against the people of the United States.  A month
before the strange death of Clinton White  House  Deputy  Counsel
Vincent  W. Foster, Jr., where he was found dead (was that really
"suicide"?  ---- or murder?), Wilcher himself had been found dead
in  his apartment sitting on the toilet.  Law enforcement refused
to investigate.  How did Wilcher, six feet tall, not fall off the
pot if that is where  he  died,  before rigor mortis set in?  The
local coroner was just too busy to inquire.  Russbacher had  told
friends  of  ours,  before  Wilcher's  body  was discovered, that
WIlcher would be found dead as later discovered by a team of some
20 CIA, Justice Department, and other officials.
   
By the summer of 1997, teams of operatives, similar to those like
Russbacher had served with in the past, were  preparing  to  help
the  Queen  of  England  resolve  the  sticky  issue  of divorced
Princess Diana of Wales planning to  re-marry to an Arah, Dodi al
Fayed.  Diana's oldest son, heir to the throne, someday would  be
King  of  England.   Would  Buckingham  Palace  tolerate  an Arab
step-father to the King?
   
"Operation Clydesdale"-style teams arranged to steal the Mercedes
used  by the Ritz Hotel in Paris, a hotel owned by Dodi's father,
Mohammed al Fayed.  They re-arranged the electronic mechanisms so
that an external signal could cause  the car to suddenly speed up
and  have  the  power  steering  turn  to  the  left.   A perfect
arrangement for shoving the Mercedes at high speed into the steel
pillar of a tunnel in Paris.
   
Killing  Diana  and her intended new husband that way would, in a
sophisticated manner understood  by  profound  thinkers, give her
the final respect.  She was slaughtered at  the  Pont  de  l'Alma
bridge, traditional spot where the kings of  Europe  fought  each
other.  According to legend, the  winner  was  actually  the  one
killed there and he went straight to Heaven and sat next to Jesus
Christ.
   
Mentioned in an  early  story  by  me  about American and British
covert  operatives  that  helped  push  the  Mercedes  into   the
pillar---using  another  car  and  a  motorcyclist  posing  as  a
photographer  to flash into the face of the Mercedes driver---was
that some of the team  was  headquartered in Bristol, England and
elsewhere in the United Kingdom.  Russbacher  called  me  shortly
after  the  tunnel  incident  story,  stating he was "retired" in
Bristol, does not do such work anymore, and said if I did not get
off the Diana story, "Color  yourself  gone, Sherman." He said he
still has connections in the States to attend to me. (I played the
tape of that phone talk on some radio shows I was later on.)
   
Showing foul play or sabotage in a plane  crash  sometimes  takes
months,  even  years,  or  cannot be convincingly enough shown to
stop simple-minded critics who do  not know about such happenings
from sneering.
   
Onboard Swissair  111  reportedly  were  part  of  an  "Operation
Clydesdale"-type team headed for  Geneva, Switzerland, to link up
with a K-Team, of Israeli  contract killers, not representing the
State  of  Israel  or  even  necessarily  the  Mossad.   There is
believed to also have been on-board an opposing team.
   
Their apparent purpose:  to carry out, or the  opposing  team  to
stop,  an  assassination  plan  to murder Vice President Al Gore,
Jr., when he visited Moscow.
   
Among the casualties of the crash reportedly  was  Prince  Bindar
(or a body double).  Prince Bindar is/was Saudi Ambassador to the
United  States.   In  most  news  reports  his name was disguised
through spaces omitted.  Was this a motive to the crash, since he
opposed Clinton?  Bindar's mansion was  just across the road from
where the body of White House Aid Vincent  W.  Foster,  Jr.,  was
discovered.    The   sister  of  an  important  campaign  finance
investigation witness  was  scheduled  to  get  on  the plane but
refused to board the flight.  Did she know something?
   
There are twists and  turns  in the underlying circumstances.  At
this early stage we can only speculate as to what happened.  Some
Saudis and Kuwaitis, at this late date in  world  history,  still
practice  chattel  slavery.   Reportedly,  such slaves were being
used as prostitutes in  the  basement of Prince Bindar's mansion,
itself adjacent to Fort Marcy  Park,  where  the  body  of  Vince
Foster  was  found in July 1993.  Where, it can be asked, did Mr.
Foster enjoy his last  sexual  pleasure,  shortly before he died?
Whose blonde hairs were all over Foster's corpse?   "Independent"
Prosecutors  Robert  Fiske  and Ken Starr both failed to question
Prince Bindar and  his  associates  in  their "investigations" of
Foster's death, even though Bindar's mansion is right across  the
road from where the body was found.

More twists and  turns:   Early  reports  stated  that a bomb had
brought down Swissair 111 and that there were 35 survivors.   (It
remains  to  be seen whether the crash was the result of sabotage
or was just an unfortunate accident.)  Prince Bindar is linked to
support for George Bush's Persian  Gulf War of 1990-91.  Supposed
terrorist mastermind  Osama  bin  Laden,  however,  was  strongly
opposed  to  the  use  of hundreds of thousands of U.S. troops in
that region.  Did bin  Laden  order  the  death of Prince Bindar?
And what secret group uses sophisticated manipulations  to  steer
intended victims =all= onto the same doomed plane?  And why did a
certain  tennis  star  suddenly  decide not to take the ill-fated
flight -- was he steered away by the same secret group?

Swissair 111- sabotage or  accident?   We  hope  to tell you more
about it.  Stay tuned.
   
To hear a recorded phone message (changed twice a week)  of  news
stories by Sherman Skolnick, call :  773-731-1100
   
Citizens  Committee to Clean Up the Courts office, open 8 a.m. to
midnight, 7 days a week:  (773)375-5741

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

For related stories, visit:
http://www.shout.net/~bigred/cn.html

-----------------------------------------------------------------
       Views expressed do not necessarily  reflect  those
       of Conspiracy Nation, nor of its Editor in Chief.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
        I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  New mailing list: leave message in the old hollow tree stump.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 




