
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 5  Num. 55
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
I neither necessarily agree nor disagree with either all or parts 
of the following. Persons mentioned are invited to send their 
rebuttals, of reasonable length, to bigxc@prairienet.org for 
probable distribution.
                         -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
GEORGE BUSH, CASPAR WEINBERGER, FOSTER, AND POLLARD
Part Two
By Sherman H. Skolnick
 
 
Israel brokered the purported dealings that have come to be known 
as the "October Surprise". That is, negotiations, in 1980, in 
various places in Europe and elsewhere, to delay release of the 
American hostages held by Iran, to sabotage Jimmy Carter's bid 
for re-election as president and to put in the Reagan-Bush 
ticket. The hostages were released just as Reagan was being sworn 
in as president on Inauguration Day, January, 1981.
 
Some contend Israel both brokered the deal as well as being 
facilitators and spectators at the secret meetings. One purpose 
was for Israel to use Iran against Iraq, a bloody enemy of the 
Jewish state, in the then-ongoing war between Iraq and Iran 
starting in the fall of 1980.
 
Part of the deal -- called treasonous by some Americans -- was to 
secretly ship arms to Iran, by way of Israel, starting on or 
about February, 1981, or even earlier. Some of the weapons and 
supplies were taken from NATO supplies stored in various places 
in Western Europe.
 
Thus developed a secret linkage between the Reagan administration 
and Israel. U.S. Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger himself 
reportedly had a financial interest in the weapons business. As 
later became clear, Vice-President (and later as President) 
George Bush at the same time received personal financial benefits 
from arms sent from the U.S. to Iraq. Part of the Saddam 
Hussein/George Bush private joint business ventures, as secret 
partners, were part of suppressed bank records in the Chicago 
federal court case involving stopping the release of records of 
Banca Nazionale Delavoro [BNL], Italy's largest bank owned in 
part by the Vatican. This author was the only journalist 
reporting on the federal court proceedings, particularly the 
federal appeals court.
 
Bush, together with attorneys Vincent W. Foster, Jr., and Hillary 
Rodham Clinton, on behalf of Jackson Stephens and the Rose Law 
Firm, arranged for the BNL-Atlanta, Georgia branch to launder 
some 5 billion dollars of Iraqi weapons funds plundered and 
disguised as U.S. Agriculture loans. Foster and Hillary were 
instrumental in enabling BNL to penetrate the American market 
along with Bank of Credit and Commerce International [BCCI]. 
Congress has never seen fit to investigate the strange goings-on 
of the *Chicago* *branches* of BNL and BCCI. One reason: BCCI- 
Chicago financed both political parties' presidential candidates 
in 1988 -- Bush and Dukakis. The Massachusetts governor, however, 
was restricted in his bid for president when his TV campaign ad 
funds were cut off when the Reagan Justice Department and other 
Reagan federal agencies jointly seized and closed down BCCI- 
Chicago on Columbus Day, just before the 1988 election. Dukakis 
was moreso damaged by the fund cut-off than Bush.
 
As described in Part One of this article, Foster had the 
equivalent rank of a military general in the National Security 
Agency [NSA]. As secretly authorized by both Vice President Bush 
and Caspar Weinberger, Foster, as part of the linkage with 
Israel, made secret nuclear missile data, tracking and targeting 
codes, and similar top secrets available to Israel, via a Naval 
Intelligence analyst, Jonathan Pollard. The idea was to enable 
Israel to be a nuclear power, as a buffer against the Soviet 
Union, at a time when Israel was not yet proficient in such 
matters.
 
At the hearings after Pollard pleaded guilty, Weinberger was 
particularly bloodthirsty against Pollard, demanding that he be 
dealt with by the rope and the gallows or similar means. Some 
speculated that the "Mr. X" in the Pollard case was an 
unidentified Jewish-American businessman. There may have been, in 
fact, a "Mr. X", a "Mr. Y", and even a "Mr. Z". Among those 
previously unidentified persons was Foster.
 
The secret report, referred to in Part One, under the authority 
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, was the net result 
of massive compilation of data showing the apparent treason of 
Bush, Weinberger, and others in their circle, using Foster as 
their instrument, and Foster, in turn, using Pollard. The 
profound damage to the U.S., referred to by Weinberger in the 
Pollard court matter, was actually done by Weinberger himself 
jointly with Bush. Foster was a major player, who later paid for 
his deeds by apparently being murdered {1}. Pollard, on the other 
hand, was, at best, a minor player; more a puppet on a string 
than a treasonous Benedict Arnold.
 
Little known to the American people are super-secret federal 
agencies whose very acronym is forbidden to be mentioned in the 
press. One such agency has a subsidiary with vast authority to 
guard plutonium-producing facilities and similar. Anyone trying 
to interfere with nuclear secrets is perceived by the subsidiary 
as an enemy of the state, not entitled to due process of law. One 
way of dealing with such a purported "enemy of the state" would 
be to crudely murder him and dump his body near the high fence of 
a nuclear-producing facility; and then, release a quiet report 
that the dead person was shot while attempting to scale the 
fence.
 
A version of this apparently was the manner authorized by the 
operation of the subsidiary to deal with Foster. That is, to 
murder him in or near the White House and dump his body in a 
federal park, location of Civil War relics.
 
What is, indeed, puzzling, is that the U.S. Secret Service on 
occasion uses groups of both criminologists and retired gangsters 
as consultants on assassinations and attempted assassinations of 
high federal government officials. Congressional testimony in the 
1950s, seldom known or referred to, brought out that when the 
President is to visit a large city, the Secret Service consults 
with local mafia-types to see if they know of any "loner" 
assassins who may be plotting injury to the president. Marketing 
experts call such groups or meetings, focus groups. According to 
the participants of one such group in late 1993, the Secret 
Service set forth the "theory", to be discussed and explored by 
the group, that White House aide Foster was murdered in or near 
the White House and his body dumped in a distant park -- federal 
parks being notorious for covering up murders as so-called 
"suicides" because the park police are not well-trained in 
investigating such matters.
 
Several participants of such a closed-door meeting came away with 
the impression that the Secret Service knew a lot about the 
demise of Foster and that they offered the "theory" as a cover-up 
of the role of the Secret Service.
 
The secret document does not entirely answer the following 
questions:
   (1) Did Israel, in fact, blackmail Foster through the secret 
coded accounts in Switzerland and elsewhere, coded to the name of 
Vincent W. Foster, Jr., and with a beneficial interest in such 
accounts being for Hillary Rodham Clinton?
   (2) OR: Did some other person or entity set up those coded 
accounts, purportedly with deposits supposedly from Israel, to 
blackmail both Israel *and* *Foster*?
 
On the other hand, it seems clear from the report, abstracted in 
this article, that George Bush and Caspar Weinberger benefited to 
have the focus put on Israel and Foster, and Pollard, and away 
from Bush, Weinberger, and their confederates.
 
The report details various happenings which require profound 
related knowledge to correlate and comprehend. For example, on 
behalf of the National Security Agency [NSA], from 1983 up to his 
death, Foster operated an NSA proprietary in the Grand Caymans 
specializing in gold bullion transactions with the aid of members 
of the London Gold Pool.
 
Acting as a buffer or cut-out between NSA and Systematics, 
specializing in bank software services, are three NSA 
proprietaries including LSI Financial Group, Inc., of Little 
Rock. Some contend Systematics is an NSA proprietary and spies on 
banks overseas. By the way, the National Security Council, 
through a spokesperson, contends it is not a crime for an 
American firm to spy overseas; a Justice Department official says 
about the same. (It becomes a lint-picking episode whether the 
spying data violates any laws if brought back to the U.S.) Can 
Systematics rightfully deny spying actually moreso done by cut- 
outs or buffers between Systematics and NSA? Systematics through 
a spokesperson vigorously denies Foster and Hubbell assisted it 
in any spying on foreign banks, but remains apparently silent on 
whether Hillary Rodham Clinton assisted Systematics in some 
nefarious activities.
 
As to LSI Financial Group, Inc., they reportedly help launder 
dope and gun smuggling loot, disguised as loan servicing, for 
Household International and their unit, Household Bank, a 
successor to the CIA-linked Nugan-Hand Bank of Australia. The 50 
million dollars of Resolution Trust Corporation [RTC] funds, 
parked with Household in the Chicago area, has been secretly 
transferred to Little Rock. Purpose: to attempt to cover-up the 
47 million dollars missing from Madison Guaranty S&L, for which 
some are prepared to blame Bill and Hillary Clinton. Hillary's 
crony, John E. Gierum of Park Ridge -- same place Hillary's 
family is from -- is a lawyer who in January, 1994, confessed to 
this writer that the Clinton White House is trying to "frame" 
Gierum for the secret transfer which apparently went further 
through LSI. Gierum's confession is a matter of federal court 
record in the Joseph Andreuccetti affair; Gierum was served a 
copy of the same and did not dispute the same. Funds from LSI are 
washed, in turn, reportedly through Fuji Bank.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
Since 1963, Mr. Skolnick has been founder/chairman, Citizens' 
Committee to Clean Up the Courts, investigating judicial bribery 
and political murders. Updates of the group's work are on a 5- 
minute recorded phone message (a regular phone call): (312) 731- 
1100. He is also, since 1991, part of a very popular public 
access cable show in Chicago. Mr. Skolnick's comments and 
disclosures also appear on Internet and other computer networks. 
Office (8 a.m. to midnight, 7 days): 9800 So. Oglesby Ave.  
Chicago, IL  60617. Phone: (312) 375-5741. Call before sending 
fax. Donations for their non-profit work are appreciated.
 
---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} Was Foster murdered? Conservative Consensus (July 3, 1995) 
reports that Foster's neck may have suffered trauma before he was 
killed. According to the newsletter, original Polaroid photos 
never used by the Fiske Investigation show what "appears to be a 
wound, puncture or other trauma" to Foster's neck. This may have 
been a small caliber bullet hole. [Conservative Consensus, PO Box 
17912, Seattle, WA  98107.]
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigxc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

