
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 5  Num. 10
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
I neither necessarily agree nor disagree with either all or parts 
of the following.        -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
WHAT IS WHITEWATER REALLY ALL ABOUT?
By Sherman H. Skolnick
 
[...continued...]
 
Almost all in the press ignored the story that the Federal 
Reserve was investigating Hillary and Foster in respect to money 
laundering [of] illicit funds through foreign bank arrangements.
 
Were the deals with BNL Chicago and BNL Atlanta arranged by and 
through CIA? With the aid of former CIA Director George Bush and 
CIA darling Hillary? A host of circumstantial details, enough to 
fill several books, tend to prove that.
 
Then there is the case of Bill and Hillary Clinton and the 
mysterious fifty million dollars. Some background gives the 
context.
 
Pending since 1984 have been a slew of state and federal cases in 
the Chicago area that together have come to be called the 
Andreuccetti Affair. Named for Joseph Andreuccetti, a west 
suburban caulking contractor pushed, he says, into *involuntary* 
bankruptcy by massive fraud of several banks and savings and 
loans. One such S&L [was] taken over by Household International, 
parent of Household Bank, together successors to the CIA-linked 
Nugan-Hand Bank of Australia. (See: Jonathan Kwitny's book, *The 
Crimes of Patriots*.)
 
Because of large, pending claims by Andreuccetti against the 
defunct S&L, the federal bail-out machine, Resolution Trust 
Corporation [RTC], set up a 58 million dollar fund parked with 
Household. One of Joe's [Andreuccetti's] attorneys more or less 
supervised the fund, John E. Gierum. In January, 1994, Gierum, of 
suburban Park Ridge, confessed to this writer, in the presence of 
Andreuccetti, about Gierum's troubles. Gierum has been a close 
crony of Hillary's family (originally from Park Ridge), the 
Rodhams. The White House, Gierum confessed, is trying to frame 
Gierum for the secret transfer of 50 million dollars of that 
contingency fund. The fund was transferred to Little Rock, to 
make good some 47 million dollars gone from Madison Guaranty 
Savings and Loan; some federal sources blame the President and 
First Lady for the missing 47 million dollars, talking darkly of 
mis-appropriation or bank embezzlement.
 
Gierum knew this writer from a probe of the Andreuccetti Affair 
by a court reform group headed by this writer. Gierum said he did 
not think he could prevent from getting "framed" for the 
mysterious 50 million dollar transfer.
 
"You're a skilled lawyer, you should be able to defend yourself," 
Gierum was told. The attorney explained mournfully that the 
powers that be, that is, the Clinton White House, have the matter 
set up, and the usual defense of the law and the facts cannot 
help Gierum.
 
Reliable federal sources told us some 32 bookkeepers were unable 
to locate or figure out how the 50 million dollars disappeared 
from Household and RTC Chicago. By the way, is it just 
coincidence? Former CIA pilot Terry Reed, in his book, 
*Compromised*, telling how he flew CIA dope into the airport at 
Mena, Arkansas, also mentions a mysterious 50 million dollars.
 
Other senior federal sources contend part of the 50 million 
dollars was funneled to the Grand Cayman Islands, with the 
reported help of Fuji Bank, and then, on to Switzerland. A Swiss 
bank reportedly has part of the money, mixed in with other 
illicit funds gathered for Clinton, part of it reportedly dope 
loot, under the code name "Chelsea Jefferson" -- "Chelsea" being 
the name of Clinton's daughter, and "Jefferson" being Bill's 
middle name.
 
In the Andreuccetti cases, the details of Hillary's crony 
Gierum's confession are a matter of court record. Gierum was 
served a copy and he did not dispute the same.
 
RTC investigators have known about the 50 million dollar fund 
secretly disappearing and secretly transferred to Little Rock, to 
cover up the reported Clinton embezzlement. One RTC senior 
investigation specialist was looking too deep into the matter: 
Jon Parnell Walker. He was "suicided", that is, murdered, by 
being thrown off a building in Arlington, Virginia. His friends, 
family, and co-workers all agree on one fact: Walker was not 
depressed; maybe just impulsive. In any case, Walker's demise was 
to show other RTC people it is unhealthy to look into such things 
as the 50 million dollar mystery.
 
Another mess involving Hillary and Foster involves the Chicago 
operation of RTC. For several years, RTC's major outside 
attorneys were the Chicago-based firm of Hopkins & Sutter. So 
important was the law firm, RTC's offices were actually *inside* 
Hopkin's Chicago office. Hopkins & Sutter, for RTC, arranged for 
two members of a distant law firm, namely Hillary Rodham Clinton 
and Vincent Foster, jr., of the Rose Law Firm of Little Rock, to 
work the clean-up details of a defunct savings and loan of a west 
suburb of Chicago. The S&L, owned by former Illinois Governor Dan 
Walker, sr., went under in part because of corrupt bond deals 
done with the Clinton business crony, Dan Lasater. Part of the 
fall-out resulted in Dan Walker, sr., going to prison.
 
Hillary and Foster did a cover up job. And, is it just another 
coincidence that Hopkins & Sutter partner, Jay Steinberg, is also 
the bankruptcy trustee in the Andreuccetti Affair; Steinberg 
himself reportedly involved in the mysterious 50 million dollar 
transfer to Little Rock?
 
Hillary and her law partner Foster were also reportedly 
implicated in arranging the transfer of illicit funds resulting 
from the cocaine shipments by CIA pilots into Mena. Here is how 
it reportedly worked:
 
1. The dope loot was washed through the Arkansas Development 
Finance Authority [ADFA], a state creature originated by Bill 
Clinton as Governor.
 
2. From there, the dope funds were transferred, in part, to 
Arkansas banks and bond brokers who transferred the loot to 
Garfield Ridge Trust & Savings Bank of Chicago. That is a small, 
closely-held bank; the owners include:
   *** Dan Rostenkowski, owner for more than 20 years of the bank; 
       for more than 30 years a Congressman; now a scandalized 
       former Congressman;
   *** Dan Shannon, once board chairman of that bank; he and his 
       family closely linked to the illicit financial operations 
       of Mayor Richard J. Daley, who ran Chicago City Hall for 
       21 years, and his son Richie, Chicago mayor since 1989;
   *** And, the most important owner, reportedly, as to this 
       context, Hugh Rodham, Hillary's brother who went to law 
       school with Gierum and is the White House connection.
 
Federal investigators contend they have been investigating the 
Garfield Ridge Bank for the last 2-and-a-half years, as to the 
dope money trail from Arkansas.
 
From that bank, the dope loot was reportedly transferred, in 
part, to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange which also helped cover 
up Hillary's mysterious 100 thousand dollar windfall on commodity 
speculations. Several traders on the "Merc", although contending 
they are not personally involved, admitted to this writer that 
they expect a horrendous scandal because of the washing on the 
"Merc" of Mena dope money.
 
From the "Merc", the dope loot, in turn, was reportedly washed 
through offshore accounts, reportedly, again, by Fuji Bank, for 
the benefit of the Clintons.
 
Some of the Arkansas dope loot was disguised as fraudulent or 
non-existent "loans" of the U.S. Small Business Administration 
[SBA]. Although the Chicago regional office of SBA does not 
include Arkansas, the funds were washed through Chicago. Is it 
just another coincidence that White House crony John E. Gierum 
has also been senior litigation attorney for the Small Business 
Administration?
 
As more and more details pile up, you can see why Gierum's 
undisputed confession takes on such significance.
 
What were some of the purposes of the dope money? Some 18 
sizeable businesses have reportedly been financed this way, 
including, reportedly, Tyson Foods, J.B. Hunt Trucking, and Wal- 
Mart. We understand that Wal-Mart officials vigorously deny dope 
funds played any part in the spreading out of their Arkansas- 
based firm, nationwide. Perhaps someone never told them.
 
State and federal law enforcement authorities contend that Tyson 
Foods and Don Tyson, the boss until recently, have long been 
implicated in dope trafficking. Is Don Tyson, who stepped down as 
head of the firm, evading a federal grand jury subpoena by way of 
his extended vacation to the Cayman Islands? Some think so.
 
Then there is the circumstance of San Jacinto Savings & Loan, 
once located in a Texas town with the same name. Federal 
investigators contend somewhere between 15 and 150 million 
dollars disappeared, by way of non-existent home loans to 
Arkansas, and that Hillary is involved. A senior federal bank 
investigator, returning from his work in Texas, said cryptically, 
"Hillary is going to prison."
 
Unanswered questions:
 
1. Did Bill and Hillary Clinton benefit from all the apparent 
embezzlement of savings & loan and other funds?
 
2. Did they only partly benefit personally?
 
3. Were they, either together, or each in a different project, 
fronting for CIA covert fund activities, such as at Mena?
 
4. Is the really big secret about all this -- Mena, Little Rock, 
Chicago, Atlanta -- that the illicit activities of the Clintons 
overlapped the covert and illicit doings of George Bush and Ollie 
North? And that this is what is causing both Democrats and 
Republicans to be hung up, not wanting to really finger the 
Clinton White House?
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigxc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

