                           Anywhere Scroller
                                v1.00


OverView:

        Anywhere scroller is a program that is another part to the 
Intro Maker v3.0.  This handy little utility, requires a .CRD coordinate
file for an external 256 color FONT picture.  By using this program, you will
be allowed to draw with your keyboard or mouse, on the background picture
where and how you want the Scrolling text to appear.  There are four parts
to this program.
        The First part to this program, is the request for the .CRD file
which you have created, or one that has been provided with THG Intro Maker.
This will tell the program how big your font that you wish to scroll
actually is.  The .CRD files can be created with the MEGAFONT.EXE program.
        The Second part to the Anywhere Scroller is a feature that comes in
quite handy for tricky scrolling effects.  After figuring how out big your
external font will be, the ANYWhere scroller will switch to 80x50 mode, and
display the number of pixels vertically.  Here, the first pixel will be
a fixed point or reference point for the scroller.  The next course of
action should be you using the keypad, or arrow keys to place each pixel
how you want it to scroll repectively to the first pixel.  To switch
pixels, use the +/- keys.  You can save these patterns in BWF files which
mean Brush Warping File.  Use L and S to Load the Brush Warp File or Save
the Brush Warp File respectively.  If you wish to move the 1st pixel so
you can move the pixels above or along side the first pixel, use the
I-J-K-M buttons to move the screen accordingly so you can have enough
room to move each pixel.  Don't forget to save the BWF file if you wish
to re-use this pattern for another scroll.  Press Q or ESC to exit
this part.  It does not save this automatically, you must use the
Save command.
        The Third part of the program, is a request for the background
picture support.  Give the extension of your background picture according
to which graphics compression is used.  It will decompact the picture and
display it throwing you into the next part of the program.
        The heart of the Anywhere scroller is the next part.  This will
show you a cursor that looks like you have entered according to the offsets
you have entered in the last second part of the program.  Here, you may
either hit the Space Bar for PenUP/ PenDOWN toggle and the keypad for
moving the cursor around.  Remember, when the Pen is DOWN, it is recording
where you are putting the pixels.  That is the order they will show up in
when it goes to scroll it.  You can also use the Mouse and Mouse buttons to
draw on the screen.  Although, there is no mouse support when the keyboard
PenUP/PenDOWN key has been toggled, all you have to do is to place the
cursor where you want a slice of your scroll to go.  Press the left mouse
button.  The Right mouse button exits to the next part of the program, as
well does ESC, and Q.  If you hold down the Left mouse button and move the
cursor, it will skip pixels.  So go SLOWLY.  THis is because the Mouse button
routine that was written is too fast for it.  It would record several pixels
by just a quick press of the button.  Also, the + and - keys change the
color of the cursor, and the backspace key undoes the previous slice.
        The Final part to the program, is entering the Name of the .PTH
path file you wish to call it.  This screen also tells you how many slices
of a scroller you have entered.

Keys:

        +/-                        :              Change Color
        Q,ESC                      :              Exit
        Keypad                     :              Move cursor
        SpaceBar                   :              PenUP/PenDOWN toggle
        Back Space                 :              Undo last Slice
        Left Mouse Button          :              Place a slice at x,y
        Right Mouse Button         :              Exit


Note:
        I am not one for documentation.  I don't think any of us are, but
this program is pretty easy to use.
