From Exec-PC Multi-user BBS, 414-964-5160
Bob Mahoney, SYSOP                7/16/87
-----------------------------------------

IF YOU ARE GETTING GARBAGE ON THE SCREEN, OR ARE HAVING TROUBLE
COMPLETING FILE TRANFERS:

If you see random characters on your screen, or if file transfers involve
many retransmitted blocks or aborts, or if you can only get a good connect
at lower baud rates, then this help info is for you.  There is probably a
problem in either the quality of the phone line connection you have between
your modem and the Exec-PC modem, or your modem has a problem, or there
is a bad modem on Exec-PC.

FIRST THINGS FIRST:  It is unlikely the modem is bad on Exec-PC.  If we have
a bad modem, our callers tell us about it within a day or two, and we replace
the bad modem.  If you have a consistent connect problem, then it is probably
not caused by a modem on Exec-PC.  Also, if you get the noise problems on more
than one line (node number) of Exec-PC, it is highly unlikely that we have
more than one bad modem here, so the problem lies elsewhere.

BAD PHONE CONNECTION:  Most of the bad phone noise problems occur on long
distance connections.  We have, however, helped people with bad connections
on LOCAL calls.  You never know when the phone company has provided a marginal
connection until you start getting problems with your modem.  In the worst
case, you will be able to hear the noise on the line if you pick up a phone
and hear scratching or hissing noises.  If you can hear the noise, call the
phone company and insist on a fix.

LONG DISTANCE PROBLEMS:  The majority of the noise problems come from a poor
quality connection through a long distance service.  Many people tell me, "I
use AT&T, so it is not a problem with the phone service."  Maybe yes, maybe
no.  ALL long distance vendors, including AT&T have variance in the quality of
their service.  When in doubt, try a different vendor.  If you do not know how
to gain access to a different long distance vendor, call your phone company
and have them explain it to you.  It is your legal right to have easy access
to alternative long distance vendors.

Some people have fixed problems by switching from US Sprint to AT&T, while
others have gained a perfect connection by switching from AT&T to US Sprint,
or to MCI, or to any of the dozen other long distance services.

MODEM PROBLEMS:  Last but not least, many people have found out their bargain
modem was not such a bargain after all.  If you suspect your modem may have
a problem, it is best to borrow a friends modem and try it in place of your
modem.  If the problem persists, try using a different phone outlet in your
home of office, perhaps a different phone line if another is available.  When
the problem goes away, you know what was causing it.

If it turns out your modem is causing the poor connects to Exec-PC, then you
should contact the manufacturer, dealer, or distributor of the modem and
describe the problem to them.  Tell them the problem goes away when the modem
is replaced with another modem.  This will convince them to either repair or
replace your modem.

PC PURSUIT USERS:  Although you may not expect it, PC Pursuit sometimes causes
line noise problems and file transfer problems.  The PCP concept requires
that 4 modems be talking clearly in order to establish a good connection
for you.  From our recent experience, the connections are not always
perfect.  The usual cause of the problem is between your PC and the local
PCP modem you are dialing into.  Some people have fixed the problem by calling
Telenet customer support and asking them for alternate access numbers for
the local Telenet node they are dialing into.



In every case I have encountered in the past 4 years, one of the above
techniques has solved the connect problem.

End of info.
