Computer Etiquette, by Mel North.

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
                        Computer Etiquette, By Mel North                       
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

The following are a few points of general BBS etiquette. If you wish to
maintain your welcome on whatever system you happen to call, it would be to
your advantage to observe these few rules.

1. Don't habitually hang up on a system. Every Sysop is aware that accidental
disconnections happen once in a while but we do tend to get annoyed with people
who hang up every single time they call because they are either too lazy to
terminate properly or they labor under the mistaken assumption that the 10
seconds they save online is going to significantly alter their phone bill.
"Call Waiting" is not an acceptable excuse for long. If you have it and intend
to use the line to call BBS systems, you should either have it disconnected or
find some other way to circumvent it.

2.  Don't do dumb things like leave yourself a message that says "Just testing
to see if this thing works". Where do you think all those other messages came
from if it didn't work? Also, don't leave whiney messages that say "Please
leave me a mess-
age". If ever there was a person to ignore, it's the one who begs someone to
leave him a message. If you want to get messages, start by reading the ones
that are already online and getting involved in the conversations that exist.

3. Don't use the local equivalent of a chat command unless you really have some
clear cut notion of what you want to say and why. Almost any Sysop is more than
happy to answer questions or offer help concerning his system. Unfortunately,
because about 85% of the people who call want to chat and about 99% of those
people have absolutely nothing to say besides "How old are you?" or something
equally irrelevent, fewer Sysops even bother answering their pagers every day.

4. When you are offered a place to leave comments when exiting a system, don't
try to use this area to ask the Sysop questions. It is very rude to the other
callers to expect the Sysop to carry on a half visible conversation with
someone. If you have a question or statement to make and expect the Sysop to
respond to it, it should always be made in the section where all the other
messages are kept. This allows the Sysop to help many people with the same
problem with the least amount of effort on his part.

5. Before you log on with your favorite psuedonym, make sure that handles are
allowed. Most Sysops don't want people using handles on the system. There is
not enough room for them, they get silly games of one-upmanship started, it is
much nicer to deal with a person on a personal basis, and last but not least,
everyone should be willing to take full responsibility for his actions or
comments instead of slinging mud from behind a phoney name.

Also when signing on, why not sign on just like you would introduce yourself in
your own society? How many of you usually introduce yourselves as Joe W Smutz
the 3rd or 4th?

6. Take the time to log on properly. There is no such place as RIV, HB, ANA or
any of a thousand other abbreviations people use instead of their proper city.
You may think that everyone knows what RIV is supposed to mean, but every BBS
has people calling from all around the country and I assure you that someone
from Podunk, Iowa has no idea what you're talking about.

7. Don't go out of your way to make rude observations like "Gee, this system is
slow". Every BBS is a tradeoff of features. You can generally assume that if
someone is running a particular brand of software, that he is either happy with
it or he'll decide to find another system he likes better. It does nobody any
good when you make comments about something that you perceive to be a flaw when
it is running the way the Sysop wants it to. Constructive criticism is somewhat
more welcome. If you have an alternative method that seems to make good sense
then run it up the flagpole.

8. When leaving messages, stop and ask yourself whether it is necessary to make
it private. Unless there is some particular reason that everyone shouldn't know
what you're saying, don't make it private. We don't call them PUBLIC bulletin
boards for nothing, folks. It's very irritating to other callers when there are
huge blank spots in the messages that they can't read and it stifles
interaction between callers.

9. If your favorite BBS has a time limit, observe it. If it doesn't, set a
limit for yourself and abide by it instead. Don't tie up a system until it
finally kicks you off and then call back with another name. This same rule
applies to downloading or playing games. Only one person at a time can be
logged on to a BBS and it isn't fair to everyone else if you overstay your
welcome. Remember, a BBS is best when it can be left wide open. If you try and
cheat the rules you just hurt everybody by forcing the Sysop to adopt more
strigent policies. I can't count the number of systems that are now locked
tighter than a drum because of people who cheat and abuse.

10. Don't call a BBS just to look at the list of other BBS numbers. Most
especially don't call a system as a new user and run right to the other numbers
list. There is probably very little that's more annoying to any Sysop than to
have his board completely passed over by you on your way to another board.

11. Have the common courtesy to pay attention to what passes in front of your
face. When a BBS displays your name and asks "Is this you?", don't say yes when
you can see perfectly well that it is mispelled. Also, don't start asking
questions about simple operation of a system until you have thouroghly read all
of the instructions that are available to you. I assure you that it isn't any
fun to answer a question for the thousandth time when the answer is prominently
displayed in the system bulletins or instructions. Use some common sense when
you ask your questions. The person who said "There's no such thing as a stupid
question" obviously never operated a BBS.

12. Don't be personally abusive. It doesn't matter whether you like a Sysop or
think he's a jerk. The fact remains that he has a large investment in making
his computer available, usually out of the goodness of his heart. If you don't
like a Sysop or his system, just remember that you can change the channel any
time you want. Besides, whether you are aware of it or not, if you make
yourself enough of an annoyance to any Sysop, he can take the time to trace you
down and make your life, or that of your parents, miserable.

13. Keep firmly in mind that you are a guest on any BBS you happen to call.
Don't think of logging on as one of your basic human rights. Every person that
has ever put a computer system online for the use of other people has spent a
lot of time and money to do so. While he doesn't expect nonstop pats on the
back, it seems reasonable that he should at least be able to expect fair
te way he does. Your business is to either abide by what he
says, or call some other BBS where you feel that you can obey the rules.

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
Downloaded from: The Beaker Bulletin Board System            General Bulletins
