
       ---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
                           SOFTWARE FOR LAPTOP NEEDS
          INCLUDES A LISTING OF SHAREWARE VENDORS AT END OF THIS FILE
       
       ---------------------------------------------------------------- 

       In some respects you should not need special software just for a 
       laptop or notebook computer. The whole idea is to be able to run 
       software that larger desktop computers run - but when and where you 
       need it. That's the flexibility of computing in a laptop 
       environment.

       However, several software packages are frequently mentioned by 
       laptop users as being valuable because of their minimal memory 
       requirements or specialized features. 

       For the many users, an integrated package containing a word 
       processor, spreadsheet, database and modem package may be the 
       best value since some needs may be met within ONE software 
       system. Two standouts in this category are Microsoft Works and 
       LotusWorks. 

       No-Squint from SkiSoft Publishing is a small software utility 
       which changes the tiny laptop screen cursor into a larger block 
       which can be seen. Available from most software vendors or call 
       617/863-1876. 
              
       Shareware packages with minimal memory needs which run all 
       laptops include Alite (a spreadsheet), PC-Write Lite (word 
       processor) and File Express. All are available from shareware 
       disk vendors such as those listed at the end of this article as 
       well as most computer clubs and BBS systems.

       For hard drive users whose disk space is at a premium, the 
       software package Stacker from Stac electronics compresses and 
       expands files on crowded drives - a necessity for many laptop 
       and notebook computer users. 

       For modem work, many laptop users gravitate to the software 
       package ProComm Plus (commercial software which also has a 
       shareware variant) or the useful Telix package (shareware.) 

       Other, distinct utility packages are frequently mentioned. 
       Although not specifically designed for laptops and notebooks, 
       these are useful software items....

       PC TOOLS DELUXE. The quintessential toolkit of goodies DOS 
       forgot to include. PC Tools contains a superb DOS shell for file 
       management, a miniature database, file transfer utility, 
       calculator, backup system, unerase data restorer, disk repair 
       capability, security file wiper and literally dozens of other 
       useful one-of-a-kind goodies. If you can only afford one 
       utility, PC Tools Deluxe is it. 

       THE PC MAGAZINE UTILITIES are continuing classics and favorites 
       of many users. Available through most computer clubs and by 
       modem from local BBS sources and PC Magazine as disk bonus 
       offers when you subscribe to that periodical. An index to PC 
       Magazine utilities is maintained through their on line PcMagnet 
       modem service which can be reached by following printed 
       instructions contained in every issue of PC Magazine. The 
       utilities are in the public domain and generally available at no 
       charge beyond a small disk copying or distribution fee. 
       Most shareware distributors carry disk sets of the PC Magazine
       utilities. Several utilities in this set are useful for laptops 
       and allow file transfer between two computers, remote computing, 
       file slicing and macro work on laptops. Since all are free and 
       easily located they are genuine bargains for all laptop users. 

       LABELPRO prepares labels and address stickers better than any 
       competing program. Prepare nametags, casette tape labels, 
       address stickers with ease. 

       HOTLINE allows you to manage, search, sort and DIAL phone 
       directory databases. A grownup electronic rolodex system which 
       works better than any other program of this type. 

       BROOKLYN BRIDGE & DESKLINK allow transfer of files between 
       computers via a cable connector and facilitate the transfer 
       between desktop and laptop computers with ease. 

       KEYWORKS & NEWKEY are universal keyboard macro programs which 
       issue a burst of keystrokes when you press only one or two keys. 
       ESSENTIAL for all beginners to learn and use! NEWKEY is 
       shareware. 

       CHECK-IT & SYSTEM SLEUTH perform diagnostic tests to tell your 
       what connections, cables, ports disk drives and components are 
       working and why. You can locate bad memory chips and in general 
       save time and frustration tracking down problems. 

       QEMM-386 & 386MAX manage vast areas of RAM memory in 80386 
       equipped computers. These can convert extended memory to 
       expanded memory, move device drivers and terminate and stay 
       resident programs efficiently, and remap BIOS and graphics video 
       into faster RAM area memory. Subtle programs which help manage 
       memory on more powerful DOS machines. 

       MARK/RELEASE is a small program whose sole function is to 
       install and remove TSR programs such as popup calculators, 
       address books and others for minimum memory crowding and 
       conflict. Shareware. 

       FASTBACK PLUS allows reliable and quick backup of essential hard 
       disk files to floppy disks and tape backup systems. A variety of 
       options allows selective backup by date, data and file type. 

       SUPER PC-KWIK provides a fast disk cache buffer system that 
       speed processing and convenience for hard disk users. Speed is 
       always a convenience when using a hard drive and SUPER PC-KWIK 
       is the champion disk cache software utility. 

       PKZIP is a unique shareware program which compresses files up to 
       80% smaller in size! This frees up disk space on your hard drive 
       and also allows faster file transfers when using a modem. PKZIP 
       is as standard as DOS and almost as essential. 

       FASTTRAX is a disk optimizer and file defragmenter whose sole 
       job is to periodically assemble files into efficient contiguous 
       sectors on a disk for speedy performance. A routine housekeeping 
       function no disk drive owner can neglect. 

       SCAN & CLEANUP are virus/trojan horse detection and erradication 
       programs which are probably the best of the bunch. Shareware.

       CED & PCED & LIST are utilities which browse files (list) and 
       provide command line editing functions (CED and PCED) which are 
       far superior to the functions DOS provides. All are shareware. 

       HOT SHOT GRAPHICS & PIZAZZ PLUS function to capture screen 
       graphics to transfer them to another software program for 
       presentation or publication use. 

       GRAPHICS LINK PLUS facilitates the conversion of graphics 
       picture files between varying software packages. 

       TYPEFAST resets the keyboard rate of your system so you can 
       (good guess) type fast! Public domain utility from PC Magazine. 

       PRINTCACHE is a print spooler. You can thus dump your document 
       file out to the printer and within a split second come back to 
       your program and keep working rather than sit there for 30 
       minutes as your printer hogs the PC. 

       ULTRAVISION adjusts cursor size and provides many differing 
       typefaces on your screen if you don't care for the ones which 
       came with your software or PC. 

       MAGELLAN The ultimate text search utility. Search an entire hard 
       disk quickly for the file that contains the phrase "swimming 
       pool budget for Mr. Davis" or other search idea. Great for 
       locating that document when piles of files seem lost on your 
       hard drive. 

       GRANDVIEW The best of the outliner programs. When you need to 
       assemble, sort and prioritze tasks or documents Grandview is it. 

       SOFTWARE BRIDGE & WORD FOR WORD PROFESSIONAL allow different 
       word processing programs to swap documents in different file 
       formats. Great for the office where each person uses a different 
       word processing package. 
 
       Next, a short overview to highlight the differences between 
       types of software and a brief listing of shareware disk vendors.

       With so much software in the marketplace sometimes the hardest 
       job is to select from overabundance and arrive at genuinely 
       useful programs. Software is available in three basic flavors: 
       COMMERCIAL, PUBLIC DOMAIN and SHAREWARE. 

       Commercial software is sold by mail or through retail outlets 
       and is generally protected by both legitimate and stringent 
       copyright laws. Commercial software may in addition be copy-
       protected (difficult or impossible to make spare disk copies) or 
       non-copy protected (can be copied to another disk for safe-
       keeping or archival purposes.) Commercial software is usually of 
       good quality and can range in price from 10 dollars to several 
       hundred dollars or more. 
       
       Public domain software represents computer programs which have 
       been released into the public domain, do not require payment or 
       registration fees to the author, and are frequently available 
       from computer clubs, some libraries, and modem BBS telephone 
       systems. PC Magazine utilities are examples of public domain 
       software. 

       Shareware, a third area of software interest represents programs 
       whose author(s) request a donation or registration but are 
       otherwise available in much the same manner as public domain 
       software. Frequently "enticements" such as a documentation 
       manual of program instructions, an upgrade disk or other bonus 
       offer is made within the program to secure a registration fee. 

       Which type of software is best? Probably a little of each, to be 
       honest. Many people find that starting with several affordable 
       commercial programs (to ensure fast, productive results) and 
       then sampling shareware over time (to continue trying new 
       software affordably) to be of value. Other computer owners find 
       that starting with shareware and public domain software (to get 
       a broad sampling of software variety at little cost) and then 
       buying additional commercial programs as sophisticated needs 
       grow a productive strategy.
 
       Back to shareware for a moment....

       You do not have to be a hobbyist, hacker or computer guru to 
       utilize shareware and public domain software. A short list of 
       shareware distributors follows this section. 

       Membership in a local computer club or user group is one way 
       to obtain shareware. Many retail software and computer 
       equipment stores maintain lists of local clubs. 
       
       Frequently a local and friendly Radio Shack salesman can give 
       you a clue as to computer clubs. The clubs frequently augment 
       club treasuries by sale of shareware disks. Membership with many 
       clubs is optional - purchasing a shareware disk is convenient 
       whether you are a member or not. Disk distribution or copying 
       may fees hover around $3 to $5. 

       A second, perhaps more convenient source for some people, is 
       mail order sources of shareware, otherwise known as shareware 
       distributors. A list of several shareware sources is provided 
       at the end of this tutorial. 

       A third avenue for locating shareware is either a BBS computer 
       system (a computer in someone's home or office hooked by modem 
       to telephone lines) or the larger commercial on-line services 
       such as Compuserve, The Source and BIX. These larger commercial 
       services can be the fastest way to locate and obtain shareware. 
       The on-line modem route has the additional advantage that 
       shareware can be located by electronic search/sort which 
       certainly speeds up the process. Cost is obviously a factor. 
       With a local BBS service the cost is simply that of a local 
       phone call. Commercial services generally charge by the minute 
       or hour and sometimes also involve long distance charges if a 
       local line is not available. 

       Next a list of popular mail order shareware distributors not to 
       be confused with mail order software distributors of commercial 
       software. Contact them and request a free catalog - you will 
       be surprised at the depth and variety of shareware offerings. 
       
       A shareware distributor or disk vendor usually charges a nominal 
       fee ($2 to $5) to copy and DISTRIBUTE a disk to you. If you find 
       the shareware useful, you are encouraged to send the author of 
       the package a final REGISTRATION FEE ($10 to $50 approximately) 
       to use the package and receive updated copies, instruction 
       manuals or bonus items to thank you for the courtesy of 
       registering. Shareware is an honor system. The distributors make 
       money charging a fee for a sample disk, but the author also 
       deserves a registration fee if you find the shareware useful. 

       ---------------------------------------------------------------- 
       
                     SHAREWARE DISTRIBUTORS - A SHORT LIST

       ---------------------------------------------------------------- 
       
       SSP Shareware Sales, Dept LC    
       PO Box 1506, Mercer Island, WA 98040 

       Offers specialized shareware collections for laptop owners and 
       buyers as well as a large collection of general purpose 
       shareware. Featuring low prices of $1.99 per program item, SSP 
       offers over 3,000 shareware titles. SSP catalog available on 
       disk and costs $1.00 for shipping/handling in 360K format size 
       disk or $1.50 on 720K format disk. One of the lower priced 
       disk vendors for laptop and general purpose shareware.

       PC-SIG
       1030D East Duane Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086; (800) 245-6717; 
       In Calif. (800) 222-2996. 

       PC-SIG is perhaps the largest and best known of the shareware 
       distributors. With a bi-monthly magazine, slickly packaged 
       software, over 2000 disks and a printed catalogue PC-SIG is 
       perhaps also the best organized. PC-SIG boasts authorized 
       dealers throughout the United States (most major cities) and 
       many foreign countries! Marketing and customer service are a PC-
       SIG trademark. Memberships list at $20 per year which allows 
       members to purchase disks for $5.50 per disk in lot orders of 
       10 or more. Non-members pay $6.00 per disk. PC-SIG CD-ROM 
       available which contains all titles in the PC-SIG library.

       Public Brand Software, Inc.
       POB 51478, Indianapolis, IN 46251; (317) 856-1001 or 
       (800) IBM-DISK. 

       Public Brand charges $5 per disk plus $5 shipping and handling 
       per order. On par with PC-SIG. Extensive shareware catalog.
       All titles can be downloaded from CompuServe or the PBS bulletin 
       board online with your modem.

       Tutorial finished. Be sure to order your FOUR BONUS DISKS which 
       expand this software package with vital tools, updates and 
       additional tutorial material for laptop users! Send $20.00 to 
       Seattle Scientific Photography, Department LAP, PO Box 1506, 
       Mercer Island, WA 98040. Bonus disks shipped promptly! Some 
       portions of this software package use sections from the larger 
       PC-Learn tutorial system which you will also receive with your 
       order. Modifications, custom program versions, site and LAN 
       licenses of this package for business or corporate use are 
       possible, contact the author. This software is shareware - an 
       honor system which means TRY BEFORE YOU BUY. Press escape key to 
       return to menu. 
       

