                        Installing a DPT Controller
                      with User Definable Parameters

1.  Disable the BE3011 by removing jumper Y7 as it will not be
    used.
2.  Format the disk using the DPT Format Utility or, if previously
    formatted with the DPT Utility, Calculate Best Drive
    Parameters.
3.  Select the operating system.  Hit F10 to calculate the Best 
    Configuration Parameter.  Write this parameter down.
4.  Enter the setup mode.  Select disk type 48 or 49 (user
    definable parameters).  Enter the Best Configuration Parameters
    that were written down earlier.  You may need to enter
    additional fields of information such as Landing Zone, Write
    PreComp, Head Switch Time, etc.  These values can be found in
    your hard disk manual or call DPT Technical Support for
    assistance.
5.  Save your setup mode, and reboot the system from the floppy  
    with the operating system you will be installing.  Continue  
    with standard partitioning and high level formatting.


User Definable Parameters are only used when your operating system
is BIOS dependant (see BE3011 requirements for BIOS dependant OS's)
and your controller is running in emulation mode.  If you are using
a DPT SmartDriver (SW-UNIX, SW-NOV, SmartROM, etc.) UDP's are not
necessary.


                               ** NOTE **

Other BIOS notes:

1.  User Definable Parameters will not work properly under Novell
    Netware.  The error message "ABEND - INVALID ROM BIOS" appears
    when entering CompSurf or NETGEN.  This anomaly occurs with ALL
    USER DEFINABLES REGARDLESS OF BIOS MANUFACTURER on any
    controller card, not just DPT.
2.  AMI BIOS dated 155-030389-K8 has problems running with
    ConCurrent DOS.  These problems include:
       a.  FAT gets blown away during REINDEX.
       b.  CHKDSK reports FAT errors.
       c.  Hangs intermittantly.

    AMI BIOS dated 155-121589-K8 is pretty solid and seems to work
    fine with CCDOS.  This is the release date we recommend.
3.  AMI BIOS dated 155-022190-K8 may have unnecessary overhead when
    performing seeks.  Normally, the DPT controller provides about
    .3ms of seek time (measured by CORETEST, available on this
    BBS).  With this release of AMI BIOS, the seek time is about
    3.0ms.  After consulting with AMI Technical Support, it was
    brought to our attention that this BIOS has a routine built
    into it that calculates the position of the head and cylinder
    that is currently being accessed on the hard disk.  This was
    produced for the Everex Step 33 machine which displays that
    value on an LCD screen on the front of the case.  The
    technician explained that this calculation may cause a higher
    seek time and recommended a different release of BIOS if this
    feature was not necessary.


