ีอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
ณ  Information on different picture viewing programs  -  Updated 5th Oct 1991 ณ
ิอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออพ

        The following notes provide a guide to help people
        choose which picture viewing program to use.
        All the programs listed below are available for download
        from the State Of Chaos BBS, Ph (09) 410-3815.


CSHOW833.ZIP    -    Cshow v8.33a     -     Latest version at 19-6-91

        This is one of the best known viewing programs.
        It allows viewing of the following picture types :

              CompuServe GIF      Rix
              CompuServe RLE      Targa
              MacPaint            Deluxe Paint LBM, BBM
              PC Paintbrush PCX   Windows BitMaP
              PC Paint PIC        TIFF
              Dr. Halo

        Main Features :

        Supports EMS memory for panning of 1280x1024x256 pictures
        Microsoft mouse compatibility
        Tag groups of files for viewing and slideshows
        Supports most SVGA cards and video modes
        Scripts for controlling slideshows
        Images can be scaled to screen size
        Print pictures on a variety of printers

       *NOTE : I have seen several other copies of Cshow (up to
        version 8.51) claiming to be the latest. All of these
        have actually turned out to be quite old versions in spite
        of the version number. Version 8.33 is the latest as of
        June 91 and was received direct from the programs authors.


GDS109.ZIP      -    Graphics Display System v1.09

        This program is quite new, the 1st release was Feb 91
        It allows viewing of the following picture types :

              CompuServe GIF      Rix
              MacPaint            Deluxe Paint LBM, BBM
              PC Paintbrush PCX

        Gds can alter brightness, contrast, colour, etc and
        write the changed picture back to disk.

        One especially good feature of Gds is its ability to
        create visual catalogs by grouping reduced pictures
        together to create a single picture file.
        Hundreds of individual pictures can be combined within
        a single picture.

        Main features :

        Supports EMS memory
        Uses mouse or keyboard
        Supports up to 60 rows by 132 columns
        Tag groups of files for processing
        Supports most SVGA cards and video modes
        Slideshows
        Alter colours, size, shape
        Zoom and clip sections of pictures
        Catalog multiple pictures into a single display file
        High quality image reduction
        Convert between different picture formats
        Most options user configurable


GRAFWK60.ZIP    -    Graphic Workshop v6.0

        This version is a complete rewrite and represents a great
        improvement over previous versions I have used.
        It allows viewing of individual images but is really
        intended for conversion and manipulation of pictures
        rather than use as a straight picture viewer.
        It handles many different formats and is able to
        convert images between any of them.
        It can also produce self displaying *.EXE files for
        splash screens etc in a similar manner to GIFEXE.
        It allows viewing of the following picture types :

              CompuServe GIF      Ventura GEM/IMG
              MacPaint            TIFF
              PC Paintbrush PCX   Deluxe Paint/Amiga IFF/LBM
              PC Paint Pictor PIC WordPerfect Graphics WPG
              Windows 3 BMP       Encapsulated PostScript EPS
              Microsoft Paint MSP Text files
              Truevision Targa    24-bit files

        Main features :

        Supports Expanded/Extended/Virtual memory
        Print images on LaserJet, PostScript and other printers
        Self displaying pictures (doesn't support SVGA)
        Rotate, Flip and Scale images
        Produce clip art from colour images
        Special effects :
                Colour reduction, Grey scale, Sharpen
                Soften, Smudge, Posterization
        Script language
        Supports many SVGA cards
        Many options user configurable


GIFDES40.ZIP    -    Gif Desk v4.0

        This program allows viewing of individual pictures or
        alternatively up to 80 Gifs on screen at one time.
        The multiple Gif mode can be used to create visual catalogs
        in a similar way to GDS109, however the quality of its
        image reduction is not as high and it cannot display as
        many images at once as GDS109.

        Main features :

        Supports most SVGA cards
        Catalog multiple pictures into a single display file
        Print pictures on Laserjet compatible printers
        Allows command files for automated usage.


GIFEXE.ZIP      -    Gifexe v1.0

        This program is not a normal picture viewer.
        It is used to convert any Gif image into a self displaying
        *.EXE file that can be run from the Dos prompt.
        This is useful for displaying fancy splash screens before
        starting up an application program etc.

        Unfortunately the self displaying image is rather slow.
        The registered version supports SVGA modes.


GIFFIE12.ZIP    -    Giffie v1.2

        This program is fairly ordinary but does have a couple of
        features the others don't - special effects & descriptions.
        Giffie allows you to choose whether the pictures 'fade in',
        'zip up/down' or simply replace - only works for 320x200.
        It can also attach a description to each Gif file to help
        you keep track of what each picture is.

        Supports mouse and slideshows
        Print pictures on HP Paintjet or Plotter
        Supports standard Vga but SVGA support is very limited


GIFWARP1.ZIP    -    Gif Warp v1.0

        This program is not actually intended as a viewer.
        It allows you to display a GIF file and then stretch
        parts of it to create weird effects.

        If you feel like putting long noses and big ears on
        people then this is the program to do it.
        Works with pictures up to 256 colours.
        Shareware version only works in 320x200 resolution.
        Registered version supports SVGA.
        Uses microsoft compatible mouse.
        Save warped Gifs to disk.

PICEM21.ZIP     -    Picem v2.1

        This program is different to the others mentioned here
        in that it does not draw the pictures line by line but
        rather displays the completed image all at once.
        It allows viewing of the following picture types :

              CompuServe GIF      PC Paintbrush PCX
              PC Paint PIC

        Main features :

        Tag groups of files for slideshows
        Alter brightness & contrast
        Write changed pictures back to disk
        Scale images to screen size
        Supports most SVGA modes
        Can utilize Bios modes specific to your video card
        Convert between different picture formats


VUIMG.ZIP       -    VuImage v2.92

        This program displays both Gif and Tiff files.
        It can also print both picture types.

        Main features :

        Supports various SVGA cards (external drivers needed)
        Images can be scaled & zoomed
        Alter brightness and contrast
        Tag groups of files for slideshows
        Many options can be configured via command line switches


      ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
      ณ So which viewer is best? ณ
      ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู

        The viewer you choose will depend on what hardware you have
        and what features you require. The following is therefore
        my opinion on what I have found suits my requirements best.

        Firstly a quick list of a few areas in which some of the
        above viewers are lacking or have problems.

        PICEM can't handle very large pictures due to memory constraints

        CSHOW can't save a changed picture although it can save settings
        in a separate file that it uses when redisplaying a picture

        GIFDESK quality of image reductions is fairly poor, and it
        can't alter contrast or brightness

        GIFFIE doesn't support very many video cards or SVGA modes


        I use 3 of the above programs regularly - CSHOW, GDS & PICEM

        - Cshow is good if you want a general purpose picture viewer
        that supports more than just the Gif format.
        It has a convenient mouse & keyboard interface that is easy
        to use. It handles the largest pictures and all video modes.

        - Picem is the viewer I use most. I find it convenient for
        quick command line viewing of single images. I also prefer
        its method of displaying the completed image rather than the
        line at a time method; this makes it good for slide shows.
        It also displays images automatically centred on screen.

        - Gds is the program to use if you are into 'patching' Gifs.
        It has an excellent mouse & keyboard interface. It supports
        several picture types, both viewing and writing them.
        Its editing features allow rotating & flipping images. It
        can alter aspect ratios, clip sections, zoom (magnify),
        change brightness, contrast, colour saturation etc.
        The quality of its image reductions is excellent and the
        cataloging feature is very versatile.
        I should point out however that some of its features are
        only available in the registered version.

        I believe that the 3 programs above should cover most users
        requirements. The other viewing programs, and others I have
        used but not mentioned here, do not in my opinion possess any
        worthwhile features not already covered by Cshow, Gds & Picem.

        However I should also make special mention of Graphic Workshop.
        Although I don't make much use of it myself, it is definitely
        a quality program. Its image conversion facilities are very
        good. The self displaying *.EXE files appear much faster than
        those produced by GIFEXE.

       ีอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
       ณ For The Highest Quality GIF Pictures, Dial ...              ณ
       ณ                                                             ณ
       ณ    ฿฿ ฿฿ ฿ ฿฿ ฿฿    ฿ ฿฿    ฿฿   ฿ ฿ ฿฿    ณ
       ณ    ฿฿    ฿    ฿       ฿        ฿ ฿   ฿฿    ณ
       ณ    ฿฿฿  ฿  ฿ ฿  ฿  ฿฿฿    ฿฿฿ ฿      ฿฿฿ ฿ ฿ ฿ ฿ ฿฿฿ ฿฿฿    ณ
       ณ                                                             ณ
       ณ                                  Phone (09)-410-3815  24hrs ณ
       ิอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออพ

       Written, and hopefully updated occasionally,
       by Geraint Bycroft (Sysop - State Of Chaos)


