[PAGE 55]                                  WERE YOU BORN UNDER A LUCKY STAR?

                                 CHAPTER III

                      WERE YOU BORN UNDER A LUCKY STAR?

   Have you ever looked through a kaleidoscope at the patterns formed  there
by the many little pieces of varicolored glass,  and noticed how the slight-
est disturbance of the position changes the pattern?   Also,  do you realize
that it would be impossible, or almost so, to duplicate any pattern, no mat-
ter how much you were to turn; there is such a variety of effect.  Similarly
when  you  look into the heavens night after night you will  notice  changes
among the planets,  in fact such is the variety of changes that occur  among
them  that it would be impossible to duplicate the position which they  hold
relatively to one another while you are reading this,  for almost twenty-six
thousand years.   Thus in the planetary kaleidoscope there is, we might say,
an infinity of patterns.  When we realize that human beings are entering the
world constantly and that each being is stamped at the first complete breath
with  the planetary pattern then in the sky,  everyone must  necessarily  be
different from everyone else.   Nor should this statement about stellar  in-
fluence  create  doubt  when we consider that wireless  saves  of  different
lengths  and  different  pitch sent out from a tiny man-made contrivance can


[PAGE 56]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

make themselves felt and can register by mechanical operations involving ex-
penditure of energy thousands of miles from their source.  The planetary vi-
brations from those great orbs in the heavens make themselves felt  millions
of miles away as surely,  as easily,  and with equal uncertainty.   We  know
that  the angle of the solar ray determines whether it is winter or  summer.
We  also know the effect of the Moon upon the waters,  and it is within  the
experience of all that we feel more buoyant when the atmosphere is clear and
dry than when it is moist and murky.   And what determines these atmospheric
conditions but the planets, the circling stars?

   When  we look up at this planetary kaleidoscope from time to time we  see
in the heavens various configurations which are pronounced lucky or  unlucky
according to whether they are formed between so-called benefices alone, such
as Venus, Jupiter and the Sun, or planets said to be malefic such as Saturn,
Mars  or Uranus.   When Jupiter and Venus are in close conjunction near  the
mid-heaven,  it is a foregone conclusion that those who come into the  world
under this configuration will enjoy a measure of good fortune far above  the
average,  and such persons would therefore me considered "lucky"  in the ex-
treme.   On the other hand there are times when Saturn and Mars  occupy  the
zenith position for souls that are born to suffer.

   But why should one suffer and another be born under a lucky star?  Why do
the stars give good fortune  to  one and misfortune to others, and if we are


[PAGE 57]                                  WERE YOU BORN UNDER A LUCKY STAR?

born to "luck":  whether good or bad, what is the use or where is the incen-
tive to individual effort?  If there is a law of nature which is established
beyond doubt it is surely the law of Cause and Effect.     Every cause  must
produce  an  adequate effect and nothing which we see as an  effect  can  be
without a pre-existence cause.  Moreover, if this is a universal law it must
apply  to the conditions of birth as well as to subsequent life.   Following
up  this idea the next question is:   If our birth under a lucky or  unlucky
star.   Thus by induction of belief in Astrology requires also a belief in a
previous existence as well as in future lives,  for while we are now reaping
in our horoscopes the effects of our past lives we are also by out acts lay-
ing  the foundations for a new horoscope which can only be worked out  in  a
future life.

         "How closely luck is linked to merit
         Does never to the fool occur;
         Had he the wise man's stone, I swear it,
         The stone had no philospher,"

said MEPHISTO sarcastically in "FAUST" and it is true.  If we are born under
a lucky star it shows that we have earned good fortune thereby indicated, by


[PAGE 58]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

forethought,  kindness,  and our other virtues expressed in previous  lives,
for we cannot have friends unless we are friendly ourselves.   If we  happen
to have Saturn and Mars instead of Venus and Jupiter near zenith,  it  shows
that in the past we ourselves have not been kindly and friendly or we  could
not now express the opposite traits.   But this is just the point where  the
study of Astrology should help us.  It shows our limitations for the present
and it points out the obvious remedies and HOW TO BUILD FOR THE FUTURE.  Can
the leopard change its skin?   No.  Can the lion cease to prey?   Absolutely
impossible.   Can the flower cease to bloom or the mineral  to  crystallize?
Certainly not;  because they are under laws which are as unchangeable as the
laws  of the Medes and Persians.  THEY HAVE NEITHER CHOICE  NOR  PREROGATIVE
but must obey the dictates of the group spirit which guides them along their
path of evolution.  But in this respect we differ radically from those lower
kingdoms, we have both choice and prerogative.  WE MAY DO WHATSOEVER WE WILL
and  that is a factor which is never shown in the horoscope,  a factor  that
may be made to play an all important role in every life.   It is not  enough
to be born under a lucky star to have a lucky life,  for the horoscope shows
only the tendencies and the person who is so well endowed will without ques-
tions  have an abundance of opportunities to make his life fortunate in  the
very  highest  degree.  BUT  ONLY  IN  SO  FAR AS HE EXERTS HIMSELF TO GRASP


[PAGE 59]                                  WERE YOU BORN UNDER A LUCKY STAR?

OPPORTUNITY  on the wing,  will that which is foreshadowed in his  horoscope
come  to pass.   And similarly with the person who is afflicted by the  con-
junction  of  two malefics in the mid-heaven or anywhere else in  the  horo-
scope.  By his will, and the exercise of choice, which are his divine birth-
rights,  HE MAY RULE HIS STARS and make of the unlucky horoscope a  fruitful
life  from a far higher standpoint than the other.   The bark that has  been
tossed by the tempest harbors a job when the haven of safety is reached that
is not equaled on the ship that has always said on smiling seas.

         "Who never ate his bread in sorrow,
         Who never passed the midnight hours
         Weeping, waiting for the morrow,
         He knows not yet ye heavenly powers."

   From the higher standpoint those who are living in the lap of luxury  are
to  be pitied when their lucky stars give them all the good things  of  this
world  and cause them to forget that they are stewards and that the  day  is
coming when their souls shall be required of them with an accounts of  their
stewardship.   They shall then be forced to confess that they have failed to
use the substance entrusted to them in the proper manner; while others under
the strain and stress of live, expressed by the horoscopical squares and op-
positions,  have wrung from their unlucky stars a measure of victory.   What
wonder  then  if  the  king's  messengers, the circling stars, take from the


[PAGE 60]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

unfaithful  steward  that which he had and give to the other,  changing  the
latter's adversity to prosperity in later lives.   Thus the pendulum of luck
and  loss,  success and failure swings through many lives till we  learn  to
make our own "luck" by ruling our stars.

         "A god can love without cessation,
         But under laws of alteration
         We mortals need, in changing measure,
         Our share of pain as well as pleasure."

And  it is this necessity for change that is ministered unto us by the  cir-
cling stars which form configurations that we call good or evil, though they
are neither from a higher standpoint;  for no matter how good the horoscope,
by progression of the stars evil configurations are sure to come and no mat-
ter how evil,  there are always new opportunities for good given by  aspects
of the Sun, Venus, and Jupiter to our planets at birth.  ALL THAT WE HAVE TO
DO IS TO GRASP THE OPPORTUNITY, AND HELP OUR STARS,  THAT OUR STARS MAY HELP
US.

                 AMULETS, BIRTH-STONES AND PLANETARY COLORS

   In the windows of jeweler's shops and in cheap, ready made horoscopes one
may often read that it is "LUCKY" for people born in a certain month to wear
a particular stone or color.   It means business to the jeweler and the  as-
trological prestidigitator who  produced  "your  horoscope" by a turn of the


[PAGE 61]                                         AMULETS, BIRTHSTONES, ETC.

wrist  from a box when you tell him in what month you were born.   Both  buy
their instructive (?) literature at a nominal price per thousand,  the prin-
cipal  cost being paper and printers'  ink;  there are no furrows  in  their
foreheads from deep and earnest study of the problem.

   But as the counterfeit coin argues the existence of the genuine,  so also
the  fallacious information flippantly dispensed by people who cater to  the
sense of mystery and wonder which is deeply imbedded in human nature  argues
the existence of a genuine science of mineralogical correspondences with the
stellar rays impinging upon all who inhabit our sub-lunar sphere;  and  when
this  is rightly understood by the majority of people,  for then it  is  THE
RESULT OF ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE SCIENTIFICALLY USED,  and therefore the outcome
is as inevitable as that water runs down hill.

   The  philosophy  of planetary colors and mineralogy is that each  of  the
Creative  Hierarchies  which is active in evolution works with  the  various
classes of beings from mineral to man,  and is responsible for the  progress
made by them.   In the course of this work each Hierarchy naturally  imparts
to  the  beings with whom it labors some of its own  nature  and  vibration.
Thus each group of minerals, each species of plant and animal, vibrates to a
certain keynote which blends with the vibration of the Group Spirit, and the


[PAGE 62]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

particular sign and planet with which he is most nearly attuned.

   It   has   been  taught  by  the  Elder  Brothers  in   the   Rosicrucian
Cosmo-Conception, that:

   The  Archangels,  who  were humans in the Sun  Period  when  the  present
animals started their evolution with a mineral-like existence,  are now  the
Group Spirits of the animals.

   The  Angels,  who were human in the Moon Period when the  present  plants
commenced  their evolution with a similar mineral constitution are  now  the
Group Spirits of the planets.  Man, who reached the human stage in the Earth
Period, is now working with the new life-wave which started its evolution on
the Earth as minerals.   He is not far enough advanced to assume the role of
Group Spirit,  that being reserved for the future.  In the Jupiter Period he
will  give them life as plants have,  in the Venus Period he will bring  out
their desires and emotions as animals, and in the Vulcan Period he will give
them a mind and make then human.  That, however,  is all in the future.   At
present  he is working with them to the best of his ability,  smelting  them
into iron bridges,  ships and skeleton skyscrapers;  he is pulling them into
wires which wind around the world;  he is grinding from them gems that glit-
ter  and grace the great in our social structure,  and thus he is  gradually
establishing an intimate relationship with them and preparing to take charge


[PAGE 63]                                         AMULETS, BIRTHSTONES, ETC.

of their evolution as a Group Spirit at some future time.

   It  is well known to students of Astrology that an  astrological  reading
based upon the month in which an individual is born is worth little, for all
the  people born in the same month do not have the same experiences  by  any
means, but if we consider the DAY, the YEAR and the PLACE we get a horoscope
that is absolutely individual and totally different in detail from the horo-
scope  of  anyone  else--and this is the point which  concerns  us  for  the
present  argument--the ruler is not the lord of the sign of the Sun  is  in,
except for children born at Sunrise,  when the Sun is on the Ascendant.   IT
IS THE RULER OF THE RISING SIGN, THAT IS THE DETERMINATOR WITH REGARD TO OUR
MINERALOGICAL  AFFINITY,  because  at  the moment  of  conception  when  the
seed-atom  of  our present mineral body was deposited the Moon was  in  that
particular sign and degree,  (or its opposite), and acted then as a focus of
forces which have since crystallized into the vehicle we now wear.

   The  following table shows the affinity of each of the twelve signs  with
certain gems,  metals and colors,  and in that chart there are the  elements
for making an effective talisman by any individual who has the knowledge  of
how to cast a horoscope and blend the ingredients according to the  require-
ments of the case.  We have no scruples about telling how this is done,  for
it may help some to help themselves and others.  The  only harm it can do is


[PAGE 64]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

that it might induce some unscrupulous person to make tailsman for money and
even then,  if he is conscientious about the work, whoever obtains them will
not  be  cheated,  the  re-action being upon the  one  who  prostitutes  the
spiritual science for material gain.

                      CHART OF BIRTH-STONES AND COLORS

SIGNS        GEMS RULED BY THE SIGNS  SIGN RULER    METALS           COLORS

ARIES        Amethyst, Diamond        Mars          Iron             Red
TUARUS       Moss Agate, Emerald      Venus         Copper           Yellow
GEMINI       Crystal, Aqua Marine     Mercury       Mercury          Violet
CANCER       Emerald, Black Onyx      Moon          Silver           Green
LEO          Ruby, Diamond            Sun           Gold             Orange
VIRGO        Pink Jasper, Hyacinth    Mercury       Mercury          Violet
LIBRA        Diamond, Opal            Venus         Copper           Yellow
SCORPIO      Topaz, Malachite         Mars          Iron             Red
SAGITTARIUS  Carbuncle, Turquoise     Jupiter       Tin              Blue
CAPRICORN    White Onyx, Moonstone    Saturn        Lead             Indigo
AQUARIUS     Sapphire, Opal           Saturn        Lead             Indigo
PISCES       Chrysolite, Moonstone    Jupiter       Tin              Blue

   To  forestall  a question we may say that ancient  astrologers  who  have
studied  this aspect of the science have tabulated several hundred  minerals
of which the planetary affinities had been noted, but  these works have been


[PAGE 65]                                        AMULETS, BIRTHSTONES, ETC..

mutilated in the course of time, and are now not available.   Paracelsus and
also Agrippa,  made considerable study of this subject, and with very impor-
tant results;  but its extensive consideration is outside the scope of  this
work,  so  the  authors  will  confine  their  remarks  to  the  essentials,
indicating the way which others may pursue if they feel so inclined.

   To  illustrate how the mineral elements may be used to advantage  let  us
take  the following example:   Suppose that in a certain horoscope  we  find
Sagittarius rising with its lord Jupiter on the Ascendant.   Jupiter is then
the ruling planet and so,  according to our chart turquoise is the  person's
birthstone,  tin, the metal with which he has affinity, and blue, his color.
That  means that it will help him express himself if he wears turquoise,  an
amulet of tin, and dresses in blue whenever consistent with custom.  That is
true of a certain extent,  but it is only a small part of the truth,  and it
is by no means the best use that may be made of this knowledge.

   To  indicate  the better way,  let us suppose that this  person's  figure
shows severe afflictions by Mars and Saturn.

   Mars afflicts three planets;  his metal is iron, Venus is the opposite of
Mars;  her metal is copper,  and consequently copper is an antidote for  the
martial vibrations.

   Saturn afflicts one planet; his metal is lead.  Jupiter  is  his opposite


[PAGE 66]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

and therefore the Jupiter metal, tin, is an antidote for the Saturian vibra-
tions.

   With  this in mind an amulet may be compounded of tin and copper not  ex-
actly  in  the ratio of three to one,  but with a mind on the  bulk  of  the
various planets, their destiny and the strength of the aspects it is desired
to overcome,  a matter which involves further study.  The work itself should
be done under auspicious planetary conditions.   A Mars amulet,  designed to
give energy to one with a weak figure would be most successful if made in  a
Mars-hour  on a Tuesday when both the Sun and Moon are in martial  signs  as
happened in April and November.   The same with amulets made for other plan-
ets.   (See the Tables of Planetary Hours,  in our SIMPLIFIED SCIENTIFIC AS-
TROLOGY.)

   A  gem  or an amulet made on these principles is a focus of  the  stellar
rays  of  the planets it represents and infuses vibrations of  their  nature
into our auras all the while we are wearing it,  just as surely as the wire-
less receiver attuned to a certain pitch catches the waves within its range;
and we may blend the colors in the same manner to obtain help from them.  As
a matter of fact,  it is the complementary color which is seen in the desire
world that produces the effect of the physical colors.   If it is desired to
restrain  one whose Mars is too prominent,  the gems,  colors and metals  of
Saturn  will help,  and such a person should have as little to do with  iron
(tools, machinery, etc..) as possible, but if we want to help someone who is


[PAGE 67]                                               BEST TIME TO BE BORN

moody and taciturn, we may use the gems, colors and metals of Mars to advan-
tage.   In the final analysis the matter resolves itself into a question  of
judgment and common sense.   With these, the knowledge concerning the essen-
tials here given may be used by anyone to advantage.

                      WHEN IS THE BEST TIME TO BE BORN?

   In the light of occult investigation of the subject it appears that birth
is an advent we are powerless to control;  therefore when we seem to control
it in a slight degree we are really the agents of Destiny to precipitate  or
delay it till the proper moment has arrived.  This view is also justified by
the author's experience in Horary Astrology.   The philosophy of Horary  As-
trology is that at the time one is impelled to ask a question concerning  an
important  matter  the heavens contain also the answer and a figure  set  is
when  the inquirer asks the question of the astrologer,  if this is done  in
person;  when it is done by mail the astrologer sets the figure for the time
he reads the question in the letter.

   On  a number of occasions we have received letters  containing  questions
which  bore marks of having been delayed by flood or fire,  but  the  figure
cast for the moment of reading gave the answer, showing  that  the delay had


[PAGE 68]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

a part in the plan,  nor should it surprise us that the great  Intelligences
which are the ministers of Destiny foresee and make allowance for contingen-
cies  beyond the grasp of the human mind.   When the Infinite  Mind  bestows
equal care upon the design of the anatomy of a fly, a mouse and a lion,  may
we not conclude that a similar attention to the minutiae prevails in all de-
partments of life and that when we seem to delay or precipitate birth we are
really aiding nature to takes its predetermined course as said in the  open-
ing sentence of this article.

   Nevertheless people often ask the astrologer when is the best time to  be
born;  young astrologers also frequently want to know this,  not  that  they
have any idea of controlling birth but so that on seeing a horoscope or  be-
ing  told a person's time of birth they may make a quick mental  calculation
as  to  whether  the horoscope is good or bad.   Such a  judgment  would  of
course,  be founded only on the position of the sun by sign and  approximate
house,  hence  general in the extreme.   It may be said however  that  other
planetary  positions being equal,  it is better to be born when the Moon  is
increasing  in  light from the new to the full than when she  is  decreasing
from the full to the new for the growing Moon always increases vitality  and
furthers our affairs.

   It  is best to be born in April or August when the life-giving Sun is  in
its  exaltation sign Aries or Leo,  its home,  for then we enter the sea  of
life  on  the  crest-save  and  are  backed in the battle of existence by an


[PAGE 69]                                               BEST TIME TO BE BORN

abundant fund of vim and energy.

   It is also good to be born in May or July when the life-light of the  Sun
is focused thought the exaltation sign or home of the Moon,  Taurus or  Can-
cer, especially, as said, when the lesser light is increasing for those con-
ditions,  also furnish an abundance of vitality which is such a great  asset
in physical life.

   With  respect to the time of day most favorable for birth it may be  said
that children born about sunrise,  or during the forenoon from 8 to 12 while
the  Sun  is tranversing the houses of friends and social prestige  are  the
"luckiest"  for they are helped on every hand.   Children born between  noon
and  midnight are less "lucky"  the nearer the Sun comes to the  Nadir,  and
them  the  "luck"  turns again in favor of those born in the  early  morning
while the Daystar is ascending towards the eastern horizon.   They will have
to carve their own way in the world, but opportunities will be given them in
abundance.

   We  may therefore sum up our conclusions by saying that it is best to  be
born  at Sunrise or in the forenoon, preferably in April or August when  the
Moon is increasing in light.

   Finally it should always be borne in mind that there is no "luck," in the
commonly  accepted sense,  for that which we have or lack in any respect  is
due to our own actions in the past,  and in the future we may by proper  ap-
plication have what we now lack.


[PAGE 70]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                 CHAPTER IV

                            READING THE HOROSCOPE

                                INTRODUCTORY

   When the student of Astrology has learned to cast the horoscope correctly
by the study of our "Simplified Scientific Astrology,"  or another  reliable
textbook, the next and most important part is to read its message.   Astrol-
ogy means "Star Logic"  and we must seriously advise the student not to  de-
pend  too much on authorities but to try to understand the basic  nature  of
each planet,  the influence of signs, houses and aspects:  then by a process
of reasoning to combine these and thus develop his own intuition which  will
serve him far better than the ability to quote like a poll parrot what  some
one else has said.

   We  would also advise the younger astrologer not to bother too much  with
the descriptions of physical appearance indicated in the horoscope.   It  is
foolish  to spend hours in studying over a phase of the subject which is  of
limited value.  We give descriptions of the different physical types, but do
so for the purpose of aiding the student to determine at sight the  probable
sign and planet rising when a person comes who does not know his birth hour.


[PAGE 71]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

There are people for instance,  who have a face perfectly resembling that of
a sheep.  If such a one were in doubt about the birth hour, we would at once
look  to  Aries and experimentally try how Aries rising would fit  with  the
other characteristics of that person;  if we did so we should probably  find
our guess to be correct.  Thus also the other signs and planets in signs ex-
hibit  distinguishing characteristics of valuable aid to the student in  the
direction mentioned.

   The  student should also endeavor to cultivate perfect confidence in  the
science  of Astrology.   There is NOTHING EMPIRICAL ABOUT CHARACTER  READING
AND  DIAGNOSIS.   In those respects it is plain as A B C.   PREDICTIONS  MAY
FAIL  because the Astrologer is unable to determine the strength of will  of
the  person for whom he predicts,  but the latent tendencies are always  ac-
curately foreshown.   The writers have found that where they do not  person-
ally know the people who characteristics they read,  their delineations  are
much  deeper and more accurate than otherwise because then personal  impres-
sions and bias are absent and the mystic scroll of the heavens is more  eas-
ily read.

   There  are  three  factors which bring to us the mystic  message  of  the
stars; the houses, the signs and the planets.

   Each  house represents a department of life;  the signs are divisions  of
the  heavens  which  by  their placement relative to the houses indicate our


[PAGE 72]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

basic  temperament and attitude towards life; and the planets are  the  mes-
sengers  of God which by their motion through the houses and signs bring  to
us the opportunities for soulgrowth which we need for our individual  devel-
opment.   It  is therefore necessary for one who wishes to learn to  read  a
horoscope  to  become thoroughly acquainted with these  three  factors  both
separately  and in their various combinations.   The following  descriptions
may help to convey this knowledge:

                                 THE HOUSES

   The houses are called "Mundane Houses," to differentiate between them and
the "Celestial Houses" namely the twelve signs of the Zodiac;  but generally
they are designated as "houses" only.

   It  is  the angle of the stellar ray which determines its effect  in  our
lives, planets which are in the East affect our physical constitution, plan-
ets  in the South near the zenith are factors for good or ill where our  so-
cial position is concerned.   If a planet is setting in the West at the time
of our birth its ray strikes us in such a manner as to draw us to a  certain
type  of marriage partner,  and the planets under the earth,  in the  North,
have an effect upon our condition in the latter part of life.   Let us  sup-
pose for illustration of  the point that someone is born at sunrise on a day


[PAGE 73]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

when the Sun and Jupiter are in conjunction.   Then they strike him from the
eastern angle and give him splendid vitality.   Another born on the same day
at noon when Jupiter and the Sun are in the zenith position may have a  very
poor, weak body if other planets in the East are adverse, but the ray of the
Sun  and Jupiter falling or his birth figure from the South  will  certainly
attract to him attention in his social sphere and make him the recipient  of
public favor and honor.   Another born on the same day, when the Sun and Ju-
piter  are setting in the West may be an outcast if planets in the East  and
South so decree, but the benefic ray of the Sun and Jupiter from the Western
angle  will  make him beloved of his mate and  successful  in  partnerships.
These facts have been ascertained by observation and tabulation.   Therefore
the twelve sections of the circle of observation as seen from the birthplace
are truly said to rule or govern various departments of life and thus people
born on the same day may have the most diverse experiences.

   The houses may be variously grouped according to the influence they exer-
cise in our lives; there are "angular,"  "succeedent"  and "cadent"  houses,
also personal, spiritual, material, social and mystical houses.

   Of the ANGLES,  the first house governs our personal self,  and its oppo-
site  the  seventh house,  rules the one who is nearest and dearest  to  us,
namely, the marriage partner.  The fourth house determines conditions in our


[PAGE 74]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

home and its opposite angle,  the tenth house,  shows our social standing in
the community where we live.   Thus the angles show collectively the  sphere
of our activities in life.

   Of  the SUCCEEDENT HOUSES the second shows our financial status with  re-
gard to that which we acquire by our own efforts and the opposite succeedent
house,  the eight,  shows whatever we may receive from others  as  legacies,
etc.   The other succeedent houses, the fifth and eleventh, show how our in-
come  may be spent,  for the fifth house indicates the children of our  body
who have a legitimate claim to a share of our income, and the eleventh house
shows  the children of our brains, our hopes,  wishes and aspirations  which
also draw upon our resources.

   Of  the  two pairs of CADENT HOUSES the sixth is the house  of  voluntary
service which we perform as our share of the world's work for an  equivalent
share in the world's wealth,  and the twelfth house shows how we may be com-
pelled  to  labor without remuneration under prison restraint if we  do  not
work willingly.   The sixth house shows also the state of our health and the
twelfth tells if hospital treatment is necessary.

   The  other pair of cadent houses,  the third and ninth show  whether  our
life and work will confine us to one place or require travel and changes  of
residence.   In  this respect the third house shows short journeys  and  the
ninth house long travels.

   The PERSONAL HOUSES comprise the first, fifth and ninth.  The first house


[PAGE 75]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

rules the constitution and peculiarities of the physical body.   Planets and
signs  in that house put their stamp on it to make or mar according  to  the
nature of its self-generated destiny.   Our fifth house shows the quality of
love-nature  of  the soul and the line of its expression if it  follows  the
line of least resistance; and the ninth house shows as much of the spirit as
we can apprehend in our present limited state.

   The  MATERIAL TRINITY OF HOUSES consists of the second,  sixth and  tenth
and  shows the worldly possessions of man,  his means of obtaining them  and
the enjoyment they bring him.  Wealth, or its reverse,  is shown by the sec-
ond house,  health, without which there can be no joy in any worldly posses-
sion,  is  shown by the sixth house; and the public prestige  which  is  the
chief  source of gratification to the average human being,  is shown by  the
tenth house.

   The SOCIAL HOUSES are the third, seventh, and eleventh houses and in them
is shown the nature of our relations and various classes of souls we meet in
life.   Brothers and sisters to whom we are bound by the time of  blood  are
shown  by the third house,  the companion of our heart with whom  our  blood
blends in another way, is shown by the seventh house, and the friends,  more
precious than pearls to whoever has earned friendship, are designated by the
eleventh house.

   The  fourth and last trinity of houses is composed of the fourth,  eighth
and twelfth.  If them are  hidden  mysteries  of  the ante-natal life of the


[PAGE 76]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

spirit,  and the post mortem experiences immediately to follow the  TERMINUS
VITAE.   On the material plane the fourth house signifies our  condition  in
the  latter part of life,  the twelfth shows the sorrow which  impresses  us
with  the worthlessness of material things and the eighth indicates the  na-
ture of our exit from the world's stage.

   An illustration may further help the student to understand how the  heav-
ens influence our life through the twelve houses.   Suppose we are out driv-
ing and our road follows the seacoast, but a mile or so inland.  A breeze is
blowing from the ocean and as it passes over the country separating us  from
the sea, it brings upon invisible wings messages from that land, which evoke
pleasure or aversion according to their nature.   In one place,  an aroma of
new mown hay fills us with delight; perhaps we are nauseated by the  noxious
smell of jasmine on the next stretch of our journey; and later become really
ill  from the stench of stagnant marsh-water.   But then we enter a  forest,
and soon its grateful pine balm restores the normal health and spirits.

   In  our journey from the cradle to the grave we carry the  twelve  houses
with us in the auric atmosphere surrounding us, as the air envelops the fly-
ing earth.  Each house mirrors part of the life; each holds some of our life
lessons; each represents how we have worked or shirked before in a given de-
partment of life's tasks.  At the appropriate time of life we reap from each


[PAGE 77]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

house what we have sown in past lives, that is, unless we forestall the har-
vest in time.   Is our eleventh house afflicted,  do friends betray and for-
sake us,  do they leave us heartsick,  or nauseate us like the scent of jas-
mine  and stagnant marsh-water?   Then let us examine the horoscope  for  it
reveals what is hidden in our auric atmosphere.  The friends sensed us,  and
we  then,  through the eleventh angle,  and something ill-smelling  must  be
there.   It may be,  we long to be befriended, more than to befriend others.
Let  us  cease  to be like the sickly,  debilitating jasmine,  and  seek  to
manifest  the sturdy strength of the invigorating pine tree;  then we  shall
find  friend  flocking around,  admiring our strength.   Not all  have  such
sturdy  natures,  but we can attract equally by kindliness,  as soothing  to
sorrowing  hearts as perfume of new mown hay to the sense,  and thus we  may
rid the house of friends of affliction.

   After the foregoing explanations, the houses may now be said to influence
the affairs of life as follows:

FIRST HOUSE rules the physical body and its constitution and appearance;  it
determines  conditions in the childhood home while the person is under  con-
trol of the parents.

SECOND HOUSE rules money,  the financial fortunes;  it shows what the person
acquires by individual effort and to a certain extent what use he will  make
of it.


[PAGE 78]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

THIRD  HOUSE rules brothers and sisters,  neighbors,  the instinctual  mind,
writings, short journeys and conveyances of travel.

FOURTH HOUSE--That one of the parents who exercises the lesser influence  in
the  person's life,  conditions in the latter part of life,  houses,  lands,
mines; everything pertaining to the earth.

FIFTH HOUSE--Love,  courtship and licentiousness,  the legitimate and  ille-
gitimate  attraction and social intercourse between the sexes prior to  wed-
lock;  children,  education institutions,  books and newspapers,  sports and
amusements, stocks and speculations.

SIXTH HOUSE--Health,  service to be rendered by the person and also the con-
dition and faithfulness of those who serve him.

SEVENTH  HOUSE--The marriage partner,  the public in  general,  competitors,
partners, opponents in litigations, rivals.

EIGHTH  HOUSE--Death,  legacies,  the marriage  partner's  finances,  occult
abilities and faculties latent but nearly ready for manifestation.

NINTH HOUSE--Religion, spiritual experiences and aspirations, dreams and vi-
sions, long travels and law.

TENTH  HOUSE--The parent who exercises most influence in the person's  life,
the honor and social standing of the person, his employer or judge,  and the
government.


[PAGE 79]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

ELEVENTH HOUSE--Friends,  companions and well-wishers, hopes, wishes and as-
pirations, generally of a material nature, also stepchildren.

TWELFTH HOUSE--Confinement in hospitals or prison, secret enemies and plots;
sorrow and self undoing.

                           THE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC

   On either side of the Sun's path there are a number of fixed stars  which
are so grouped that they may be conceived as forming twelve  constellations,
and as they have certain characteristic influences ancient sages named  them
for  the  animals which express similar traits.   These  constellations  are
called the NATURAL Zodiac and for all practical purposes it may be said that
they  occupy  permanent positions relative to the other fixed stars  of  the
firmament.   This  circle is divided into twelve sections  starting  at  the
first degree of Aries, which is occupied by the Sun at the vernal equinox.

   On  account of the precession of the equinox the Sun does not  cross  the
equator at the same point each year, but it has been found that the first 30
degrees  from the point where the Sun does cross the equator at the  equinox
have  an  effect  similar  to that ascribed to the constellation Aries;  the
next thirty degrees radiate a Taurian influence and so on with the other ten


[PAGE 80]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

sections  of  thirty degrees each.  Therefore the twelve  sections  measured
from  the vernal equinox are used exclusively in Astrology and called  SIGNS
of the Zodiac, to differentiate them from the CONSTELLATIONS.   (For a thor-
ough elucidation of the subject see "Simplified Scientific Astrology," under
the caption "Intellectual Zodiac.")

   These twelve signs of the Zodiac are variously divided according to their
effect on humanity into Cardinal,  Fixed and Common signs,  also into Fiery,
Earthy,  Airy and Watery signs.  What their influences are we shall endeavor
to elucidate in the following sections.

                             THE CARDINAL SIGNS

                             Keyword "Activity"

   The Cardinal Signs are ARIES, CANCER,  LIBRA and CAPRICORN.   These signs
are called Cardinal because when the Sun is in them he is in one of the four
corners of the heavens;  at a turning-point, where he is forced to take  an-
other  direction.   In Aries he is as far EAST as he can go;  Cancer is  the
tropical point of the NORTH where he gives the PERPENDICULAR RAY at the Sum-
mer  Solstice,  and consequently the greatest HEAT.   Libra is  the  extreme
WESTERN point of his path, where he turns away from the Northern Hemisphere,
and  in midwinter,  at Christmas,  he is in Capricorn at the farthest  point
SOUTH,  where his HORIZONTAL RAY leaves the people of the North in  winter's
icy  grip.  The  effect  of the angels, the first, fourth, seventh and tenth


[PAGE 81]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

houses,  is similar to the effect of the cardinal signs because these houses
are at the East, North, West and South points of the horoscope.   The nature
and  effect of cardinal signs and angles may be summed up in the words  "Ac-
tion"  and  "Initiative"  (though each acts differently  from  the  others,)
therefore planets placed in cardinal signs and angles give zest to life  ac-
cording to the nature of the particular planet, sign and angle.

   "Zodiac" means a circle of animals.  The symbols of three of the cardinal
signs are animalistic:  ARIES, the Ram; CANCER, the Crab; and CAPRICORN, the
Goat.   The fourth ,  Libra, the Scales,  represents the ideal towards which
this class must strive.   None need poise so much as those under the  impul-
sive  influence of the cardinal ray;  therefore the Balance was set  in  the
heavens to direct their aspirations.

                               THE FIXED SIGNS

                             Keyword "Stability"

   The Fixed Signs are TAURUS, LEO, SCORPIO and AQUARIUS.   Three symbols of
the fixed signs are also bestial, violent and virulent;  TAURUS,  the  Bull;
LEO, the Lion; and SCORPIO, the Scorpion.  The human figure of AQUARIUS, the
Waterbearer,  shows us the ideal towards which this class must strive.   In-
stead of fighting, preying upon, or poisoning others in the struggle for ex-
istence  they must learn to become humane, to be friends to all  instead  of
foes.


[PAGE 82]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   The influence of the fixed signs rouses the DESIRE nature, giving stamina
and persistence in action.

   When fixed signs are on the angles (the first, fourth,  seventh and tenth
houses), they exert a well nigh irresistible force, impelling the individual
along a certain line.   He may be slow and plodding,  but is sure to be PER-
SISTENT  in whatever he undertakes,  and whatever talent he may posses in  a
certain direction will be exploited to its fullest extent.   Setbacks  which
would  take the courage from a person with cardinal signs do not  daunt  the
man  with fixed signs on the angels, he knows no defeat,  and  therefore  he
usually gains his goal in the end and achieves success by Concentration upon
one point,  and Persistence in following his chosen path.  On the other hand
such  people are conservative to the last degree.   They may see and  desire
improvements in various lines, but are exceedingly slow to adopt measures to
accomplish  the desired end;  they never do this until thoroughly  satisfied
that  a certain method will meet the requirements.   In other words,  people
with  fixed signs on the angels "look before they leap;"  they look  a  long
time and very,  very carefully,  but on the other hand,  when they have once
been won over to a certain cause they are faithful unto death,  and no  more
ardent  advocates  can be found;  their zeal is almost  fanatical.   On  the
whole, people with fixed signs may be said to be THE MOST RELIABLE PEOPLE in
the world, either for good or bad.


[PAGE 83]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

                              THE COMMON SIGNS

                            Keyword "Flexibility"

   Gemini,  Sagittarius, Virgo and Pisces are called common signs, their in-
trinsic nature being best expressed by the keyword, Flexibility.

   The forces working through the CARDINAL signs impinge upon the DENSE BODY
and stir it to action.

   The power of the COMMON signs is MENTAL AND SPIRITUAL,  giving purpose to
action and incentive to nobility of life.

   Therefore people influenced by stellar forces focused principally through
CARDINAL  signs  are  the workers of the world,  not the  toilers,  but  EX-
ECUTIVES,  who accomplish things industrially, and who bring  into  concrete
existence schemes, great or small, of value in the world's work.  THE COMMON
SIGNS ARE ALL DOUBLE; two of them are human:  GEMINI, the Twins,  and VIRGO,
the Virgin;  the third, SAGITTARIUS, the Centaur, is partly human;  and only
the  fourth symbol,  PISCES,  the Fishes, is taken from the  lower  kingdom.
None are violent,  however, but intensely moral,  intellectual and spiritual
symbols.

   Unstable as reeds they are swayed hither and thither;  nothing appeals to
them permanently, they desire nothing as much as change.  No matter how well
placed,  they can seldom resist the lure of an opening in another city,  the
farther away,  the better.  Therefore the old maxim:  "a rolling stone gath-
ers no moss," applies  particularly  to  this class, for their roving habits


[PAGE 84]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

usually keep them poor.  They spend as fast as they earn,  or faster.   Thus
these people drift upon the sea of life propelled by the currents of circum-
stances.   Outside conditions dominate them as they lack stamina  to  assert
their own individuality.

   The  foregoing is true of the great majority who are under the  rule  and
influence  of common signs;  they respond to the LOWER PHASE simply  because
the  higher side is too high for all but a very few at our present stage  of
development.   Those who make a success in the world because prodded by  the
cardinal and fixed influences, call them indolent and good-for-nothing,  but
were  the former bereft of the cardinal or fixed energy which goads them  to
action, and placed under the common ray, they would soon realize its lack of
power and learn compassion for those who must so live all their lives.  What
then is the lesson these people have to learn?

              COMPARATIVE EFFECT OF CARDINAL, FIXED AND COMMON
                             SIGNS ON THE ANGLES

   While  the nature of the cardinal signs is such that their rays stir  our
latent forces into action and promote change,  the most prominent quality of
the  fixed signs is Stability;  but the student must beware  of  confounding
stability  with inertia.   The action induced by the rays of cardinal  signs
may be changed into other channels with considerable facility, all they want
being  expression;  the  direction  in  which  they  express themselves is a


[PAGE 85]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

secondary consideration.  Not so with the fixed signs, when their ray impels
to action in a certain direction it is next to impossible to stay the  force
or change it.   On the other hand, if they deny expression in certain lines,
the obstruction is almost insurmountable.

   People  of the fixed class lack ability to make their inventions  commer-
cially  usable,  a  task  for which the cardinal class is eminently  fitted.
Thus  these two classes work hand in hand and between them they have  trans-
formed  the wilderness of the world to a condition of  comparative  comfort,
their efforts toward improvement are continually carried on, and in time the
desert will be made to bloom like a rose.

   As material success depends on ability to cope with material  conditions,
the cardinal class is particularly fortunate, for it is the chief  executive
factor  in the world's work,  and reaps ready reward therefrom.   The  fixed
class  is not so prominently before the public,  labors in laboratories  and
works experimentally to complete the processes and perfect the models  which
are later used in manufacture.  Therefore this class also is a potent factor
in  life,  and  shares the material and financial success  of  the  cardinal
class.

   The  common  class is a sharp contrast.   Forces focused  through  COMMON
signs  are MENTAL,  therefore people ruled by them are averse  to  strenuous
physical  action  which  is the forte of the cardinal class; they labor only


[PAGE 86]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

when  lashed by the whip of necessity.  They are also incapable of the  slow
by  sustained effort put forth by the fixed class and are easily  discourage
by obstacles.   Thus they are leaners not lifters.   TOILERS who do the bid-
ding of the incentive and executive classes are recruited from people  ruled
by COMMON signs.  There is one sphere, however, where they shine,  according
to  their  ability  to think.   Being averse to work  they  have  created  a
vantage-ground  whence they may reap the benefits of the toil of others,  of
their inventive faculties and executive skill.  To do this they become  PRO-
MOTERS who bring inventor and manufacturer together,  AGENTS who mediate be-
tween buyer and seller, PEDDLERS, venders and all other MIDDLEMEN who go be-
tween producer and consumer and LIVE ON A COMMISSION;  also LITERARY men who
devote  their talent to purposeless FICTION belong to the class actuated  by
the lower phases of the force in the common signs.

   The cardinal class is active, the common is restless,  the fixed class is
rigid, the common is flexible.

                            THE FOUR TRIPLICITIES

   The  effect of the "Triplicities"  is most marked in the rising sign  and
when the majority of the planets are grouped in one of them.

   A fiery sign (Aries,  Leo or Sagittarius),  on the ascendant,  gives much
vitality, but it also makes the person prone to fevers and inflammatory dis-
orders; and when the majority of the planets are in fiery signs they make it


[PAGE 87]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

very difficult for the person to "keep cool" physically or mentally.

   A watery sign (Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces) rising, gives much less stamina
and predisposes to digestive,  urinary and catarrhal troubles.   If a person
has many planets in watery signs his problem is to generate enough energy to
keep warm, for this grouping gives a listless, indifferent disposition,  ex-
cept when Scorpio is rising or when many planets are in that sign.

   Airy signs rising (Gemini, Libra and Aquarius) give a nervous temperament
and  make the person liable to disorders of the lungs,  heart  and  kidneys.
Many planets in these signs give people literary and artistic inclinations.

   Earthy signs rising (Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn), give fair vitality but
a secret fear of disease arrests the vital processes in the body and poisons
these  people so that they become victims of chronic ailments  oftener  than
those of the other groupings.   The throat,  stomach and intestines are spe-
cially  threatened;  rheumatism and gout are  also  frequently  experienced.
When a person has many planets in earthy signs it favors the acquisition  of
material wealth.

                     THE SUN, THE MOON AND THE ASCENDANT

   We  stated  in our opening paragraph that there are Three  Great  Factors
which convey to us the  Mystic  Message of the stars in general, namely, the


[PAGE 88]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

"houses," the "signs" and the "planets."  There are also three factors which
play a specially important part in the individual horoscope, namely the Sun,
the Moon and the Ascendant,  which may be said to represent the spirit,  the
soul and the body.

   Properly viewed the Sun, Moon and Ascendant are not really three separate
horoscopical principles but represent two composite parts which when  united
constitute  the human being.   The "rising sing"  and the "first house"  to-
gether form an avenue for the fecundating influences of the Moon which there
crystallize  and form the etheric matrix that moulds the physical  particles
from  the maternal body into a new vehicle;  hence the  astrological  maxim,
that the ascendant at birth (or its opposite) is the Moon's place at concep-
tion.   This composite body is the part of the human being which is born and
dies after a relatively evanescent period of existence.

   The  other and immortal part of composite man which consists of  the  Ego
and  its finer vehicles is represented in the horoscope by the Sun  and  the
Moon.   The  specific influence of these planets will be described  when  we
have considered the rising sign.

                               THE RISING SIGN

   As  taught  in "Simplified Scientific Astrology" it is the angle  of  the
stellar  ray  which determines in what department of life it  will  be  most
prominently active; and it has been found by observations that the sign ris-
ing  or  ascending  on  the  eastern  horizon  when  a  child is born is the


[PAGE 89]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

principal  factor  in  determining the basic constitution and  form  of  the
physical body.   Further investigations have shown that the reason for  this
fact is that at the time of conception when the seed-atom was planted in the
ovum the Moon, which is the Cosmic agent of fecundation,  projected its fer-
tilizing ray through the sign and degree which later rises at the moment  of
birth,  (or its opposite).   For that reason the rising sign and degree con-
tinue to be the avenue of ingress of the life-forces which build the body of
the  babe until the severance of the umbilical cord,  and the nature of  the
rising sign is thus indelibly stamped upon the new vehicle and retained  all
through life.

   In this connection it should be noted that conception is not  necessarily
coincident  with the physical union of the parents,  sometimes two weeks  or
even more elapsing ere the auspicious moment awaited by the Recording Angels
or their agents strike.   At that time cosmic conditions are such that  they
will  form  a body which will facilitate the expression of the  Ego  seeking
re-embodiment and aid it to work out its self-generated destiny.   It should
also  be remembered by students that the moment of delivery is not the  time
of birth from the astrological point of view.   The inhalation of the  first
complete breath usually accompanied by a cry,  is the moment when the incom-
ing  Ego receives its stellar baptism.  This renders it ever susceptible  to
the influence of the particular configuration of the stars existing at  that
moment, and therefore the stars affect each individual  differently from all


[PAGE 90]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

others,  not even the horoscope of twins being alike.   It is also  strongly
emphasized  that  according  to this explanation we do not  have  a  certain
"fate"  because we were born at a particular time, but we are born at a par-
ticular  time because we have a certain self-generated destiny to work  out.
That is very important distinction for its substitutes divine law for divine
caprice,  it eliminates the element of "luck" and inspires man to mastery of
"fate:  by working with the Law.   If we have made our present horoscope  by
our  past actions in a past life, logically we are now preparing for  future
embodiment and may make it what we choose.   If we strive to strengthen  our
body now,  to overcome our faults, to cultivate new virtues,  the Sun of our
next  life will rise under much more auspicious conditions than those  under
which we now live and thus we may truly rule our stars and master our fate.

   When the last three degrees of a sign are rising or when the first  three
degrees  ascend at the time of birth the person is said to be born  "on  the
cusp"  between two signs and them the basic nature of the signs involved are
blended in his or her body.   Thus a person born when the three last degrees
of  Aries  or the first degrees of Taurus were ascending  would  be  neither
purely  Aries  nor Taurus were ascending would be neither purely  Aries  nor
Taurus but a mixture of the qualities of the two signs.

   The  nature  of  the  rising  sign  is  also  modified by the presence of


[PAGE 91]                                              READING THE HOROSCOPE

planets.   The  Sun and Mars increase vitality if well aspected but  it  af-
flicted they incline to fever and inflammatory disorders but they also favor
rapid   recuperation,   and  make  the  nature  alert  and   energetic.    A
well-aspected Jupiter rising also increases vitality but inclines to  corpu-
lence,  if the planet is afflicted that makes the circulation  sluggish  and
thus  gives  a tendency to disorders of the blood.   The  foregoing  remarks
about Jupiter apply to Venus in a lesser degree.   Saturn rising lowers  the
vitality and favors chronic ill-health in later life,  but at the same  time
he gives such a tenacious hold on life that though the person may pray to be
released  he cannot die.   Mercury,  Moon, Uranus and Neptune make the  body
more high-strung and nervous than the average, usable specially for pioneers
in music, literature, higher thought, science and the electrical arts.

   Planets placed in the twelfth house are considered as being on the ascen-
dant if within six degrees thereof,  also all planets in the first house  no
matter how far from the rising degree;  but if a sign be intercepted in  the
first house,  planets placed therein will not have as strong an influence in
the life as though the sign occupy the cusp.


[PAGE 92]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                  CHAPTER V

                      THE INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                                 WHEN RISING

                               ARIES, THE RAM

   Aries  is  mythologically represented as a ram and the  symbol  describes
most  accurately those born under its influence;  a pointed  and  protruding
sheep like nose,  wide forehead,  pointed chin and the resultant  triangular
face  noted  in many people,  are unmistakable indications of  their  rising
sign.   Light brown or reddish tint of the hair is a pronounced characteris-
tic of the Arian,; the body is slender and well formed; if the first part of
the sign is rising the body is shorter, and the complexion darker than given
by the latter degrees.

   Planets in the rising sign will modify the description however,  and  the
student  must use his knowledge of the character of the planets in  conjunc-
tion with the description of the Sign.  The Sun and Mars make the complexion
more florid, the Moon and Saturn make it paler and darker, Jupiter and Venus
make the body more portly.  Saturn shortens.   Uranus and Mercury lengthens.
This applies to all the signs,  but is especially marked when a planet rises
in the sign it rules.  Mars in Aries  rising would give fiery red hair and a


[PAGE 93]                                      INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

face full of freckles.  The Sun rising in Leo would give a florid complexion
with  flaxen hair,  but if Saturn were there,  instead it would shorten  the
body and darken the hair.

   Aries people are bold,  self-confident and impulsive;  they aim to  lead,
dislike to follow,  are always ready to take the initiative in any  movement
that appeals to them,  but often lack persistence to carry their projects to
a conclusion over serious obstacles.

   The Sun,  and Mars the Ruler,  rising in Aries would intensify the above,
but as a thorough explanation will be given under the heading "The Intrinsic
Nature of the Planets,"  the student is referred thereto.   We  may  mention
it  here,  however,  as a peculiarity that Aries people live through  fevers
to which others succumb.  We have known their hair to fall out, and the tem-
perature to remain four degrees above the usual maximum for many hours with-
out fatal result.

                              TAURUS, THE BULL

   Taurus is represented by a Bull in the Zodiac,  and the bodies  generated
under this sign are usually short and stocky.  They have a strong neck  with
the bump of amativeness well developed,  large lobe of the ear,  heavy jaws,
full face;  nose short and stubby.   Dark eyes and wavy hair frequently give
them  considerable beauty.   The eye of the Taurian may never dart bolts  of
fire  such  as those wherewith the Arian would annihilate his enemies; it is


[PAGE 94]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

softer,  but under provocation it becomes sullenly expressive of the passive
resistance  wherewith these people  win their battles.   It then  marks  the
difference between the impulsive Aries and the stubborn Taurus.   The  inner
phalange of the thumb is large and heavy,  the calves well developed and the
foot  chubby.   In walking the Taurian usually plants his  heel  first,  and
heaviest.

   Taurus  people are pre-eminently "thorough and steadfast"  in  everything
they do:   In love, in hate, in work or play, they persist in a given direc-
tion,  and neither reason nor argument will turn them.  They are verbose and
argumentative in defense of their actions or opinions;  they grasp new ideas
slowly,  with difficulty and conservatively, but once comprehended  and  es-
poused,  they always remember what they have learned and defend their  opin-
ions to the last ditch.

   The Sun rising in Taurus gives an unusually firm physique,  and  accentu-
ates the Taurus pride in strength.  THE MOON, being the planet of fecundity,
is exalted in this exceedingly fruitful sign;  hence people with the Moon in
Taurus  have  large families,  particularly if the configuration is  in  the
fifth house, for that designates children.

   Venus, the ruler of Taurus, rising in that sign, makes the form beautiful
as well as strong, also giving artistic ability and musical inspiration.


[PAGE 95]                                      INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                              GEMINI, THE TWINS

   When  Gemini is rising the body generated is tall and slender,  the  arms
and limbs are particularly long,  fingers slender,  hair dark,  eyes  hazel.
Gemini people are quick,  active and alert in all their movements,  habitual
restlessness being noticeable in the expression of the eyes,  which  differs
in  that respect from more fixed tendencies of the eyes of those born  under
the  two preceding signs,  although of course we do not mean that the  Arian
always  looks  angry  and the Taurian stubborn,  nevertheless,  there  is  a
settled  tendency in those directions noticeable when these people  are  not
occupied  in a certain direction;  but the Gemini people have an  expression
which  is  much  more vivid,  changeable and past finding  out.   They  have
acutely inquiring minds,  and always want to know the reason why,  but often
lack persistence to follow clews to the end,  and thus they meet disappoint-
ment.   Being tactful they avoid giving offense even under provocation,  and
are  therefore generally liked by all; though their own affections  are  not
deep.  Two distinct classes are born under this sign; one, too fond of read-
ing,  should  cultivate  independent thought,  instead  of  repeating  other
people's ideas,  or aping their manners; the other is scientific,  well bal-
anced and reserved; a model for any person.

   The  Sun rising in Gemini brings out all the noblest traits of the  sign;
it makes the nature more settled and contented, gives more persistence and a
particularly healthy and active body.


[PAGE 96]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   Mercury,  the ruler, rising in Gemini, sharpens perception, gives ability
as a writer,  or speaker,  but makes the person born with that position  ex-
tremely irritable,  vacillating and fond of change of scene and  employment.
Such people are best fitted for traveling salesmen.

                              CANCER, THE CRAB

   The chief peculiarities of the crab are a clumsy body,  slender limbs and
powerful claws.; people born with Cancer rising express them all.  They have
a large upper body,  augmented in later years by a prominence of the abdomen
acquired by over-eating.   The mandible or lower jaw is powerfully hinged to
the  cranium,  the face is therefore widest between the ears,  the mouth  is
also large, and the whole construction similar to the crab's claw.  The face
is full, the hair brown, the eyes blue, complexion pale and sickly,  for the
Cancer person has the least vitality of any.   The limbs are extremely slen-
der  in proportion to the large upper body,  so the structure  appears  "top
heavy," and he walks with a "rolling" gait.

   Cancer people are very fond of the home and its comforts, they are quiet,
reserved  and  adapt themselves to conditions, hence they are  easy  to  get
along with; their anger is shortlived, and they hold no spite.  Though lack-
ing in physical prowess, they are no hypocrites, but always have the courage
of their convictions; they voice and defend them too.


[PAGE 97]                                      INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

   The  Sun  rising  in  Cancer brings out  and  accentuates  all  the  good
qualities mentioned above, giving more ambition and pride; it also increases
the vitality, and is a particular boon in that respect to people with Cancer
rising on account of their very low life force.  Cancer, with its rule;  the
Moon,  governs the stomach and hence alimentation;  Leo and its  ruler,  the
Sun,  have charge of the heart and circulation.   If these signs and planets
are well placed in the horoscope, they counteract most other afflictions and
a  long lease of life is assured, but if they are afflicted,  much  sickness
results unless intelligent care is applied to modify the omen.

   The Moon,  the ruler, rising in Cancer, will give much instability to the
natures, and Jupiter, being exalted there, will bring fortune and fame.

                                LEO, THE LION

   The lion is the king of beasts and even in captivity is an embodiment  of
stateliness and pride.  The typical Leos of the Zodiac also express pride in
every movement and a stateliness which will not escape attention of the keen
observer; the expansive chest, the massive shoulders, the strong arm and the
large head contrast noticeably with the more slender but still muscular  un-
der body;  and as Aries has the sheep face,  so the typical Leo has  certain
feline  features.   The complexion is florid, eyes large and full,  blue  or
grayish in color,  expressing laughter, cheerfulness and content.  The whole


[PAGE 98]                                           THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

frame  is  well knit and strong,  having great  endurance  and  recuperative
power.

   It  is really wonderful how the symbology of the signs is brought out  in
the  different kinds of people born under them.   People who are born  under
Leo always want to be noted;  they are aggressive and want to attract atten-
tion everywhere they go.  They aim to be leaders, not followers.

   Leo rules the heart,  and it is a marked characteristic that people  with
Leo rising unafflicted, have hearts bigger than their pocketbooks, they give
generously  of their time,  money or knowledge without thought of self.   If
the Sun rises in Leo,  this trait becomes almost prodigality,  but if Saturn
is there to afflict instead, he will counteract it sot that they will either
circumscribe their gifts with conditions to such an extent that they  retain
practical control, or they will spend their means on themselves.

   Leos are honest and faithful;  being children of the day star,  they love
light  and  truth,  are above subterfuge and aim straight at  their  object.
Their will is firm to attain by honorable means,  They make good orators and
hold their audiences by personal magnetism.  They are very attractive to the
opposite sex, and the lower nature should be held firmly in check, otherwise
serious trouble and heartache may ensure.  The French, as a race,  are ruled
by Leo, and afford ample illustration of this point.

   The Sun rising in Leo,  unafflicted, gives a body of wonderful  strength,
vitality  and  recuperative  power;  superior  in  its  wiriness to the body


[PAGE 99]                                      INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

generated by the Sun in Taurus; but if Mars is afflicted in Leo, palpitation
of the heart will ensue.   Saturn here will cause regurgitation unless  care
is taken in early years to avoid strain.

                              VIRGO, THE VIRGIN

   People  born  when Virgo is rising are above middle stature.   The  upper
part of the head is much more developed than the lower, the weak chin, show-
ing lack of will and the large brain indicating greatness of intellect,  be-
ing therefore earmarks of the Virgo.  The face is thin,  the complexion sal-
low,  the hair brown and the eyes hazel or grey.   The feet are  small,  the
toes turn inwards and give these people a peculiar labored walk.

   Virgo people are very quick and active in youth,  they learn with  facil-
ity,  and do not work hard for knowledge; they seem to breathe it in without
an  effort.   They acquire linguistic and elocutionary powers most  readily,
are  fluent writers but are often cynical,  cold and unforgiving  when  they
have been injured.   They are extremists in their food,  and make hygiene  a
fad; they often fancy that they have every imaginable disease, because Virgo
is the sixth sign and has a certain affinity with the sixth house,  denoting
health the and disease.

   Mercury,  the ruler,  is also exalted here and gives pronouncement of all
the good which otherwise might be expected from the Sun.

   Virgo  people  are  slender in youth, but when the Sun of Life passes the


[PAGE 100]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Meridian and begins to throw its shadows toward the East,  we find in them a
tendency  toward  corpulence of body,  particularly of that  part  ruled  by
Virgo, namely, the abdomen.  They neglect to take exercise, and naturally on
this account a sluggish condition of the intestines may set in which retains
the poisons in the body and robs life of its joys,  making one  indifferent.
In  this fact lies the greatest danger of the Virgo people.   Once they  get
into the rut of sickness, they actually "enjoy"  poor health.   They love to
talk over their symptoms with other people,  and they resent any thought  or
suggestion given to them that they are not sick,  or that they can get well.
The presence of Saturn in Virgo,  or the sixth house,  accentuates this ten-
dency in the very highest degree,  and therefore it is an almost  infallible
sign that the native will have or be subject to chronic illness,  the nature
of the disease being denoted by the aspect, and the afflicting planets.

   In  order to deal successfully with Virgo people when they have once  be-
come subject to disease,  and get them out of it at all,  it is necessary to
be  firm almost to the verge of cruelty.   But though one may seem cruel  in
enforcing  upon  them the regime that is necessary to bring them  away  from
themselves, this is really the greatest kindness that can be shown, for once
these  people are in the grip of sickness they stubbornly refuse to let  go;
they  will  resort  to  the  most  cunning, even childlike schemes to excite


[PAGE 101]                                     INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

sympathy, particularly from strangers, and they will represent any effort to
show them that they are not helpless invalids.   At the very slightest  sug-
gestion  of a hopeful nature,  they sometimes lost their temper in the  most
unwarranted manner.   But when at last they are given the deaf ear by every-
body, when people who are in their immediate environment can be persuaded to
show them no sympathy, then they may come to themselves.   They need a shock
to  bring them out and away from their condition.   And until they get  that
they never can be cured.

   The Virgos make splendid nurses, if they can keep from taking on the con-
ditions of the patient.   The Virgo people never can bear to see blood  shed
or touch dead things.  They feel bodily injury to others more that harm done
to  themselves,  and are in fact splendidly described by the  word  "chicken
hearted."

                              LIBRA, THE SCALES

   Elegance may be said to express in one word the physical peculiarities of
the  Libran.   The body is slender and graceful in youth,  it  becomes  more
plump as life advances,  but even the portliness of the Libra body is pleas-
ing.  The complexion is smooth and clear, eyes are soft and blue with a kind
expression;  the mouth is unusually well formed and the  teeth  particularly
fine and even.

   Libra  people  have extremely strong conjugal affection,  so  strong,  in
fact,  that  it  overshadows  all other considerations.  The Leos love their


[PAGE 102]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

families,  but  their  hearts  take in all the world  besides;  not  so  the
Librans; they are ready for any sacrifice to give comforts to those in their
own immediate home circle, but they are also prepared to sacrifice any other
family for their own, if necessary.

   In  most  other traits the Librans express aptly the symbolism  of  their
sign,  a pair of scales, and their characteristics might be expressed in the
word:   "Changeability."   They are people of "moods," because Saturn is ex-
alted  here and weighs upon  the mind;  the changes are sudden and  extreme;
they  may follow a fad with as much zest as if their life depended upon  it,
and them without a moment's warning,  drop it and take up something entirely
opposite  there are no half-way measures in the swing of the scales.   Being
naturally given to change, they are most adaptable to circumstances,  and do
not  fret over reverses,  but set about with vim and vigor to restore  their
fortunes.

   Aries and Libra may be said to be the battlefields of the Sun and Saturn:
Life and Death, Joy and Sorrow.  The Sun is exalted in Aries, and vanquishes
Saturn;  hence the intrepidity of Aries people.  In Libra the scales tip the
other  way;  there Saturn is exalted,  and conquers the Sun;  this  gives  a
softer tone to the Libran,  whose kindly politeness contrasts markedly  with
the Arian's brusque address.   Venus,  the ruler of Libra,  is not alone re-
sponsible for this trait, Taurus people are blunt, though Venus rules. Venus


[PAGE 103]                                     INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

rising in Libra gives artistic ability, Saturn turns the mind in  scientific
directions.

   Librans  usually have well shaped hands and feet,  and are very proud  of
them.

                             SCORPIO, THE EAGLE

   The  nose  is  the most prominent feature of the Scorpio;  it  is  large,
heave,  and hooked,  resembling the bill of the eagle,  the brows are bushy,
the eyes sharp and piercing;  the jaw is very heavy;  the glint of the  eye,
and  the set of the jaw indicate the great determination which is  the  most
prominent  characteristic of the Scorpio.  The face is  angular,  complexion
murky,  and hair dark,  with a peculiar ruddy tinge noticeable when the  sun
shines on it.  The teeth are large and subject to early decay.   The body is
short and thickest, with a short, thick neck resembling that of the opposite
sign, Taurus.

   Scorpio people always stand up for their rights,  and never submit to im-
position,  through prone to ride roughshod over others.   They are  full  of
worries over things that may happen, but never do, and thus make life a bur-
den to those around them.   Sarcasm that stings like a scorpion is ever upon
the  tip of their tongue,  yet their love is strong,  and their  aspirations
lofty.   Thus there are two natures struggling in the Scorpios and they need
much  sympathy and forbearance from their friends.   In the hour  of  danger
they  never flinch,  but perform deeds of heroism with a disregard for  self
that  amounts  to  foolhardiness.  The  mind  is  sharp, cool and collected,


[PAGE 104]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

therefore  Scorpio  men make good army officers and excel in  surgery.   The
Scorpio woman has a large family.

   The Sun in Scorpio accentuates the good traits,  and gives a love  mysti-
cism; but Mars, the ruler, brings out the worldly side of the sign and makes
scoffers and skeptics.

                          SAGITTARIUS, THE CENTAUR

   People born with Sagittarius rising are even taller that those born under
the  opposite sign,  Gemini,  the men in particular having large  hands  and
feet.   The  size  and weight of the bony frame is often too  much  for  the
ligaments of the spine to support,  so these people often develop a  decided
stoop in later years.  The face is long and well formed,  the nose well pro-
portioned,  dark kindly eyes and dark chestnut hair.   The body is very  ac-
tive, but requires much rest, as the recuperative powers are below the aver-
age.

   The symbol of this sign shows that there are two widely different classes
born therein.  One, designated by the animal body of the Centaur, is frankly
in for  "a good time," they are sporty, soldiers of fortune,  of roving pro-
clivities,  fond of games of change, and ready to risk their all on the turn
of a card,  the speed of a horse, or a game of ball,  while Aries or Scorpio
people may become pugilists, and Taurus people take up wresting as a profes-
sion.   The  sports  of  Sagittarius have no element  of  cruelty  in  them.
Sagittarians  when  afflicted  may  become criminals, their crimes are never


[PAGE 105]                                     INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

violent,  however,  but rather results of their indulgence of the animal na-
ture.

   The other class is the extreme opposite,  symbolized by the human part of
the sign.   Here is the man rising above the animal nature,  bending the bow
of aspiration and aiming at limitless space, signifying the loftiest longing
of that immortal spark of incipient divinity we call the soul.   This  class
is  law abiding and of the highest morals;  from it come the pillars of  the
church and beloved rulers of state famed for integrity, benevolence and jus-
tice.

   The  Sun  rising in this sign is sure to bring preferment even  to  those
born  in lowly and obscure circumstances, and accentuate all good  shown  in
the sign; so will Jupiter, the ruler.

   Sagittarius  rules  the thighs and therefore,  naturally,  configurations
from this sign,  if afflicted are likely to cause accidents to those  parts.
And it is notable fact that Sagittarius are very liable to broken bones  un-
der circumstances where people under other signs seldom meet injury.

   In the eighth degree of Sagittarius we have the fixed star Antares, which
has a very evil effect upon the sight.   Two other nebulous spots in the Zo-
diac have a similar influence.  One is Ascelli in Leo 6,  the other Pleiades
in  Taurus  29.   The Sun,  or Moon, in one of those  places  and  adversely
configurated with one of the malefics,  Saturn,  Mars,  Uranus,  or  Neptune
gives trouble with the eyes, according to the nature of the evil aspect;  or
vice  versa,  if  Saturn, Mars, Uranus or Neptune are in one of the nebulous


[PAGE 106]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

spots  adversely configurated to the Sun or Moon a similar trouble  will  be
experienced.   Should a planet like one of the above named by in  retrograde
motion  the aspect is much worse,  for when the planet has ceased to  retro-
grade and goes direct in the Zodiac again,  it will pass over which ever one
of  these nebulous spots it is close to a second time and thereby  cause  an
added damage.   There may be,  however, a compensating side to this  aspect,
for  it sometimes happens that while an evil configuration to one  of  these
nebulous spots,  (and Antares is the worst,) deprives a person of his sight,
a benevolent configuration awakens in him a second-sight which will mitigate
the loss in a degree that only those who have that sight can appreciate.

   The Sagittarian must learn to realize his ideals within instead of  seek-
ing  them without.   We are in this school of experience for the purpose  of
overcoming,  and it is not by running away from one place to another that we
gain experience.   By staying in one place, by doing our very best to attain
our ideals where we are, we make our ideals come true.

                             CAPRICORN, THE GOAT

   Capricorn rising gives a short, slender,  narrow-chested body with a thin
neck,  thin silky dark hair, a pale peaked face with small,  weak eyes.   It
makes the chin pointed and turned upwards, the nose pointed and turned down-
wards, an impediment  in  the  speech, ill formed lower limbs and an awkward


[PAGE 107]                                     INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

walk.   The vitality is very low,  and these children are reared with  great
difficulty,  but once infancy is past, they exhibit a tenacity that is truly
amazing, and often become very, very old; they seem to dry up into a mass of
wrinkled skin and bone that is all but imperishable, this, on account of the
Saturn ray which rules Capricorn.  It is noticeable also,  that all who have
that planet prominent in the nativity show the before mentioned wrinkling of
the  skin,  even though they may retain corpulence conferred by  other  con-
figurations.

   Ambition and suspicion are ruling characteristics,  an inordinate  desire
for recognition of their claims to superiority and advancement;  also suspi-
cion that others are trying to subvert or withhold the covet prize,  is ever
with these people.  It causes them much unnecessary worry, and may result in
habitual  melancholy,  particularly if Saturn is afflicted.   They ought  to
seek amusement outdoors, read funny stories and otherwise try to cultivate a
sense of the humorous from childhood,  for this is one of the saddest signs,
and needs all possible encouragement.

   Capricorn people are successful in detective work, where secret practices
are  used to trap others.  and persistence is required to ferret out a  mys-
tery,  for they never give up.  The afflicted Capricorn is very  revengeful,
and if by Mars, may shed blood  to  satisfy a grudge.  The Sun rising brings


[PAGE 108]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

out the Justice,  Purity and Honor of the sign,  makes Captains of  Industry
such as forward the great enterprises of the world.

                         AQUARIUS, THE WATER BEARER

   The  stateliness  and pride of those born under the sign of Leo  are  not
missing in the typical Aquarian, but while in the Leo these qualities are of
a lower, more bestial nature agreeable to the sign, they are manly pride and
stateliness in the true Aquarian.  Libra generates a beautiful body but more
effeminate  as it were,  whereas the Aquarian beauty is truly manly or  wom-
anly; the fearless eye is kindly and drooping eyelashes are peculiar to this
sign.   The forehead is square, and the well developed poise tells of intel-
lect,  the large domed head shows the spiritual side of the nature  and  the
chin  is  sufficiently developed to give purpose to all actions.   Thus  the
typical Aquarian is the highest grade of humanity;  but therefore,  also ex-
ceedingly rare, for the variants produced in each sign from the typical,  by
the  interposition of one or more planets are so different that the type  is
often  unrecognizable in the majority of its features.   Aquarians are  most
loyal to friends,  therefore they attract many, keep them through life,  and
are much benefited by them.   Like Capricorn,  this sign is ruled by Saturn,
and  he  gives  to the Aquarian the same retiring  nature  and  tendency  to
melancholy  which marks the Capricornian,  but also the persistence  in  the
following a given course; and whatever  financial  success  comes  to  these


[PAGE 109]                                     INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

people is the result of continued and patient effort; Aquarians are very de-
liberate and long suffering; they never act in a hurry, and therefore seldom
have  cause  to  regret their actions, save when  reason  has  been  stilled
through  play upon their sympathies,  for under such circumstances they  are
readily imposed upon.   the love nature is very strong,  but they are not as
demonstratives as the Leo.   It is noteworthy that the qualities of opposite
signs are always reflected; Leo in Aquarius,  reflects love;  Taurus mirrors
the passion of Scorpio;  the Gemini body is a reflex of the bony Sagittarius
frame, etc.

   The  Sun  and  Saturn  bring out more  prominently  the  good  traits  of
Aquarius; this sign, where Saturn rules and Libra, where he is exalted,  are
therefore  under his most benign influence.  The Sun in Aquarius  adds  much
hope and life to the nature,  and thus counteracts the melancholy trait pre-
viously mentioned.

                             PISCES, THE FISHES

   The typical Piscean is short,  flabby and fleshy with a waddling gait not
unlike  those born under the sign Cancer, but differs from them by having  a
stouter body.  The feet are often tuned in, but larger that those born under
Virgo.   The body is weak and deficient in recuperative force.  The complex-
ion is medium,  the eyes blue, watery and expressionless, the nose large and
flat.


[PAGE 110]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   There  is  a strong tendency to mediumship among the Pisces  people,  and
therein is a danger greater than any other on earth.  No one should "sit for
development"  and degenerate into the tool of low spirits, but Pisces people
in particular are "lost" if taken control of.   They cannot free themselves,
either in this life or the next, because generally inert and devoid of will-
power.   They  are timid,  and even the mean are tearful  on  the  slightest
provocation;  they love leisure more than comfort,  and do no work which  is
not absolutely necessary to keep body and soul together.   They love  change
of scene,  rove about considerably,  generally in an aimless manner.   Being
fond of good things to eat and drink,  particularly the latter,  and lacking
will  to curb their appetite when afflicted,  they frequently indulge  their
craving to such an extent that they become habitual drunkards.

   The  Sun  rising in Pisces gives more energy and ambition,  Jupiter,  the
ruler,  strengthens the morals, and Venus exalted in this sign,  gives great
musical talent, but accentuates the tendency to alcoholic indulgence,  which
mars the lives of so many splendid musicians.

   When  many planets are in Pisces,  the person will have a hard life,  be-
cause  he or she will not want to take up life's burden,  but will  love  to
dream; such people become recluses; they seek to master the hidden arts, oc-
cultism and mysticism;  are not guided by reason,  but rather by their likes
and  dislikes,  and  unless  they  can  find an occupation that is otherwise


[PAGE 111]                                     INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

isolated from the ordinary business and trend of life they will feel out  of
place.   They are prone to incur the enmity of people with whom they come in
contact intimately,  nobody seems to get along with them,  and nearly every-
body, whether he or she shows it or not, will take a dislike to them.

   There is,  however, a higher side to Pisces; the person who finds himself
with  Pisces on the ascendant is at the end of one cycle of progress and  at
the beginning of a new.  He stands, as it were,  upon the threshold of some-
thing higher.   Therefore,  he is usually not able to live up to the  possi-
bilities of the sign which requires self-sacrifice and non-resistance in ab-
solutely  Christlike fashion.   The tendency is therefore to drift upon  the
sea  of life and dream dreams of future greatness.   This tendency  must  be
counteracted by every effort of the will, for otherwise life will be a fail-
ure,  and later the stern whip of necessity will be applied to goad  him  or
her into action.


[PAGE 112]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                 CHAPTER VI

                     THE INTRINSIC NATURE OF THE PLANETS

   The nature of gun powder which causes it to explode under certain circum-
stances is neither good nor bad,  the quality of its action being determined
by the way its power is used.  When it furthers the welfare of the community
it is called good, and evil when used in a manner derogatory to our well be-
ing;  so also with the planets, they are neither good nor evil,  each having
its  intrinsic  nature and acting in a manner consonant  therewith  save  as
modified by the circumstances under which its powers are exerted.   When  we
know  the nature of a sign and the nature of a planet,  we may  combine  the
two,  and thus obtain the correct reading of the stellar script by  our  own
reasoning instead of depending upon authorities.   For instance,  the Sun is
hot, full of vital force, and exercises an influence that buoys us up in the
body and spirit.  When its rays fall upon us with moderate strength it makes
us  stronger and more cheerful,  for there is an atmosphere  of  generosity,
out-going  love and kindliness in the Sun.   Thus if the Sun at birth is  in
the weak sign, Cancer, naturally the effect would be to modify the weak con-
stitution described in the foregoing signature of the signs; the heat of the


[PAGE 113]                                   INTRINSIC NATURE OF THE PLANETS

Sun  would give a more florid complexion to the Cancer person,  the  general
health and recuperative powers would be materially augmented,  not to  speak
of the changes that would be manifested in the disposition,  giving more am-
bition,  hopefulness and buoyancy to the temperament. Suppose,  on the other
hand,  that the Sun is in Aries when that sign is rising at the birth  of  a
person, then the fire of the Sun, added to the fire of the sign Aries,  will
increase  the  boldness and the intrepidity of the person to such  a  degree
that they may become foolhardiness, particularly, if Mars,  the ruler of Ar-
ies,  is also there increasing the warlike tendencies.   Those are traits of
character,  but the physical body will also suffer from this excessive hear,
the  blood  will race through the veins of such a person like a  Niagara  of
liquid fire, and fevers will be a frequent experience, as the superabundance
of vitality burns out the physical easement.  Were the cold,  slow and slug-
gish Saturn there instead of the Sun and Mars,  he might squelch almost  all
of the Aries characteristics both mental and physical.  If we consider Aries
symbolized  by a stove in which a fire is burning,  it would make  the  same
difference whether the hot Mars, or the cold Saturn,  were placed there,  as
it  makes  a  difference  whether  we pour oil  or  water  into  the  stove.
Similarly, all the other planets produce various results, according to their
intrinsic natures and their various combinations.  For the sake of lucidity,
and ready reference, let us first set down the word which describes the most


[PAGE 114]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

salient characteristics of each planet.

         The Sun...................................Life
         Venus................................Coalition
         Mercury.................................Reason
         The Moon...........................Fecundation
         Saturn.............................Obstruction
         Jupiter...............................Idealism
         Mars............................Dynamic Energy
         Uranus................................Altruism
         Neptune...............................Divinity

   In the foregoing,  the essential natures of the planets have been  given;
where they are well aspected by another planet these natural characteristics
are  enhanced so far as the benefic planets are concerned,  but when  evilly
aspected, the nature of Venus, which is love and rhythm, becomes folly,  li-
centiousness and sloth;  the philosophy,  law-abiding tendencies,  mercy and
lofty aspirations of Jupiter turn into lawlessness, disregard of others, and
low pursuits;  the lofty spirituality of the Sun will express itself as just
animals  spirits and physical health.  In regard to the planets of the lower
nature,  good aspects of Mars turn the desires toward constructive  objects,
as well regulated activities, while evil aspects are responsible for the de-
structive  expression of the desire nature.   Saturn,  when  well  aspected,
gives  mechanical  and  executive  ability  capable  of directing the desire


[PAGE 115]                                   INTRINSIC NATURE OF THE PLANETS

nature.   It shows the brainy,  persevering man able to cope with,  and con-
quer, material obstacles; the organizer and the promoter; the scientific in-
vestigator, who follows material lines.  As Jupiter, well aspected,  denotes
the  high-minded philosopher,  the worth law-giver,  the sincere and  ardent
priest,  in fact, all who have high and lofty aspirations,  so Saturn,  when
evilly aspected, denotes the evil-minded, creed-bound sectarian, the materi-
alist,  and enemy of society, whether church or state.  As Jupiter gives the
lofty,  expansive and benevolent mind, so Saturn,  evilly aspected,  gives a
sarcastic, concrete and narrow tendency.

   It  is  wonderful to contemplate how the planetary  forces  balance  each
other so perfectly that universal equilibrium is maintained despite the dis-
turbances of the 1700 millions who inhabit the earth alone,  not to speak of
other spheres.   Every moment of time our actions,  individually and collec-
tively,  interfere with terrestrial equipoise, and were not  this  instantly
restored,  the earth must leave its orbit,  fly off at a tangent and be  de-
stroyed.  Nor are physical disturbances most potent in disturbing or restor-
ing  balance,  it  being a fallacy to confound solidity  and  rigidity  with
strength,  as most thoroughly explained in our lecture No.  19,  "The Coming
Force."  A train has no strength itself, but must be solid because it is op-
erated upon by an invisible gas called steam.   There is no force in a rigid
hammer; but when driven by a column of flexible liquid,  like  water, backed


[PAGE 116]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

by  an elastic cushion of compressed air, the force stored in the  air,  the
force  stored  in  the air drives the powerful  hydraulic  ram  irresistibly
through whatever comes before it.  Likewise subtle, invisible,  stellar rays
are  the  factors  which  maintain our ponderous planet  in  its  path,  and
spiritual  disturbances generated by mankind are naturally the  most  subtle
force which interferes with the earth's equipoise.

   Each  planet has its opposite,  and therefore every time we  radiate  the
quality  of  one planet,  we call forth a counter current  of  corresponding
force, and by the action and reaction of those forces in and upon us and our
environment we learn the lessons of life.   Do we vibrate to the love ray of
Venus, instantly Mars comes to tempt, and tries to turn love to lust, but it
depends upon US whether we remain steadfast in virtue or yield to vice.   Do
we court the ideal of Jupiter;  do we aim to elevate the standard of  church
or state,  instantly the Saturnine forces invite to self-aggrandizement  and
appeal  to  the passion for power.   With US it lies to remain true  to  the
ideal and reap laurels that last through eternity,  or yield to the  promise
of present gain or worthless gold which we repay in sorrow when Saturn turns
and becomes the chastiser.   Each horoscope shows the tendencies in even the
humblest life,  and opportunity continually knocks.   May we all be prepared
to meet it as spiritual astrologers.


[PAGE 117]                                   INTRINSIC NATURE OF THE PLANETS

                          HOW TO TEST THE HOROSCOPE

   It  sometimes happens that a momentary mental aberration causes even  the
best of mathematicians to make a mistake in his figures and if an error  oc-
curs  when casting a horoscope an immense amount of labor may be wasted  be-
fore it is discovered.   There is an easy method of verifying the figure  in
the  main points by a glance at the position of the Sun.   The cautious  as-
trologer never neglects to make use of this method,  and we would  specially
recommend it to beginners who are naturally more prone to miscalculate  that
those who have long experience.

   When  you  have  calculated the place of the Sun and entered  it  in  its
proper house and sign,  note at once if its position coincides with its  ac-
tual  place in the sky at the time of day when the child was born.   If  the
birth occurred about sunrise, the Sun must be near the ascendant;  if in the
middle of the forenoon the Sun should be somewhere in the eleventh house, if
near noon the Sun will be found near the Midheaven in a correctly cast horo-
scope,  and  in the middle of the afternoon it is in the  eighth  house.   A
child  born near sunset has its sun close to the cusp between the sixth  and
seventh houses,  and if the birth occurs about 9 p.m., the Sun will be in or
near the fifth house.   When birth is at midnight the Sun is near the nadir,
and  a child born about 3 o'clock in the morning has the Sun in or near  the
second house.

   If  you  find  that  the  Sun  is  in its proper position relative to the


[PAGE 118]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

houses,  you  may confidently proceed with your calculations and  place  the
other  planets.   If not,  you have made a mistake which must  be  corrected
before you go further.

   When  someone hands you a horoscope calculated by another astrologer  and
asks you to read it, look first at the time of birth and then see if the Sun
is in its proper position relative to the houses,  and the right sign as de-
termined  by  the month,  for if you start to read from an  improperly  cast
horoscope you lay yourself liable to ridicule.   Suppose Saturn were on  the
ascendant and you accuse that person of being melancholy; when he denies the
indications and you discover that Mars and Mercury should be there in  Scor-
pio,  it is not probably that he will accept your explanations; he will more
likely  sneer at astrology and astrologers;  nor can we deny that  from  his
point of view such condemnation is justified.   Therefore be careful to look
at the Sun.   Other mistakes may occur, but that is the most serious and the
most easily detected.


                             --- END OF FILE ---


