[PAGE 119]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                                 CHAPTER VII

                      THE CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                            THE CHILDREN OF ARIES

                        Born March 20th to April 21st

   Aries is the home of Mars, the planet of dynamic energy,  and is also the
exaltation sign of the life-giving Sun,  hence it is a very fountain of life
and  vitality  as manifest in the sprouting of the millions of  seeds  which
break  through the earth's crust at spring time and change the white  winter
garment to a flower-embroidered carpet of green, making the forests a bridal
bower for the mating beasts and birds.

   This  great vital force also finds its expression in the children of  Ar-
ies;  they bubble over with life and energy to such an extent that it is of-
ten very difficult to curb them sufficiently to hold them within the  bounds
of safety and common sense.  They are self-assertive and aggressive to a de-
gree,  always in the lead for they scorn to follow, turbulent and radical in
all their thoughts, ideas and actions.  They are venturesome to the verge of


[PAGE 120]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

foolhardiness.   We also find that they are greedy for the fruits  of  their
labor,  they never can get enough, and no matter how much they earn they are
generally  poor for they spend as freely and as thoughtlessly as they  earn.
They make splendid foremen and overseers, for, being so full of vital energy
and ambition themselves,  they have a faculty of infusing their energy  into
their  subordinates or forcing them to work when necessary.   But being  too
impulsive  and reckless they lack the ability to originate  for  themselves.
They are serious and ardent in all they undertake;  they cannot go into any-
thing half-heartedly,  and therefore, if they once espouse a cause,  social,
political or religious,  they will work for that cause with all the vim  and
vigor  of their energetic nature.   But if on the other hand an Aries  child
becomes  addicted to a vice the whole intensity of its being is  turned  to-
wards the gratification of that particular part of its lower nature.  There-
fore  parents with Aries children have a great responsibility to set  before
them  by precept and example the noblest and best form of conduct  of  which
they are capable,  for this is probably the most impressive sign in the  zo-
diac, and the habits formed, the lessons learned in childhood and youth will
generally cling to the person through life and make him either very good  or
very  bad.   Be particularly careful to inculcate abstinence from  alcoholic
liquors,  for if an Aries child becomes addicted to that he is beyond saving
and often becomes subject to delirium.


[PAGE 121]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                             CHILDREN OF TAURUS

                         Born April 21st to May 22nd

   On  the  21st of April,  the Sun enters the zodiacal sign  of  the  Bull,
thought,  and remains in that sign until the 20th of May and therefore chil-
dren born between those dates partake in a great measure of the characteris-
tics of this sign.  Taurus is ruled by Venus the planet of love, and  there-
fore the children of thought have a basically amicable and kind disposition,
but  when they once have conceived an idea they cling to it  with  stubborn-
ness,  they are very resentful of contradiction and very difficult  to  con-
vince  that  they have made a mistake; but when one has  once  succeeded  in
showing  them that they are wrong their inherent love of justice  and  truth
will  prompt  them to acknowledge their mistakes and try  to  rectify  them.
They have a very strong and determined will so that when they set up a  goal
for themselves or have made up their minds to do anything they usually  keep
on working with patience and persistence until they make a success of  what-
ever  they have undertaken.   They also have good executive ability and  are
able  to take leading positions where they have others under their  command.
Although they are amicable and agreeable when in the company of others  they
have  a strong tendency to seek solitude and to become  very  self-centered.
They  seem  to set up unconsciously a barrier between themselves  and  other
people  so  that  it is difficult to become intimately acquainted with them.


[PAGE 122]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Taurus children are very keen in their desires for material possessions  and
they  are usually very fortunate also in acquiring them for  besides  having
good earning power themselves they are often the recipients of  inheritance.
But  they  do not want wealth for the sake of having it as much as  for  the
pleasure  and comfort which they can get out of it;  they are very  fond  of
comforts and luxuries,  art,  music,  drama and other refining influences of
life.

   The children of thought have an abundance of vitality to start with,  but
they  are very apt to go to excess in work or play,  waste their energy  and
become ill as a consequence.   They are particularly attracted to the  plea-
sures of the table.   They revel in rich foods which later give them a  ten-
dency  to digestive troubles,  enlargement of the liver,  heart disease  and
congestion of the kidneys.   These diseases are very apt to make them uncom-
fortable in later life, therefore parents should inculcate in them above all
things  the virtue of frugality,  not only by precept,  but by example,  for
these Taurus children, are very quick and they will readily see that "mother
and  father  tell me to eat little but they eat all they  want  themselves."
They should also be taught to take plenty of exercise as a means to  promote
health,  for  the children of thought are rather indolent in  their  manner.
However, as said before, they have a most wonderful vitality PARTICULARLY IF
THEY  ARE  BORN  AT  SUNRISE  and  although  they  may become subject to the


[PAGE 123]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

the diseases mentioned they will usually have a long life and a fair measure
of general good health, wealth and happiness.

                             CHILDREN OF GEMINI
                         Born May 22nd to June 22nd

   The children of Gemini are wonderfully quick-witted and bright; they also
have  the ability to express themselves clearly and to the point,  therefore
they  are  always  good company.   Conversation never  lags  when  they  are
present,  in fact they are sometimes given to monopolizing it entirely,  but
then  they  are often so interesting that other people are glad  to  listen.
They  acquire learning very rapidly and are very well informed on most  sub-
jects.  They have a good memory so that what they have won is not lost, that
is  of  course,  provided  the  horoscope  is  otherwise  well-aspected  and
configurated.   Where  it is seriously afflicted we find the faults  of  the
Gemini  pointing  in the opposite directions;  then they may  be  inveterate
chatterboxes,  shunned by everybody who can possibly get out of  their  way.
The great point to remember with these children is that they have the  abil-
ity of expression and a great deal may be done during the days of  childhood
to  mould the character in such a way that it expresses itself in  a  manner
congenial  to  others and to the general benefit of the child and  its  sur-
roundings, and that will be of help to it later in life.

   The  children  of  Gemini  are,  generally  speaking,  of a very kind and


[PAGE 124]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

affable disposition,  easy to get along with.   They are able to adapt them-
selves  to other people and to circumstances so that they become all  things
to all men and in that way they usually make friends and few enemies.   They
are  of a roving disposition and love to travel about from one place to  an-
other.  They excel in scientific or clerical activities, as agents or repre-
sentatives  of others where their Mercurial talents find an avenue  for  ex-
pression.

   From  the moral point of view it is not good to have a  flexible  nature.
The  children  of Gemini are only too easily made victims  of  flattery  and
therefore apt to be led unconsciously into paths of wrong doing.   It should
be the aim of the parents of these children to hold before them the ideal of
the straight and narrow path and emphasize the idea in their minds that that
is never to be swerved from under any consideration.

   The  children  of Gemini are very high-strung and nervous  and  therefore
they  are easily worried and irritated, which is reflected in their  actions
and their bodily health.  On that account parents with children born in this
month ought to be lenient with them in their flashes of temper for they  are
very quick-spoken under wrath;  they need a soothing answer rather than  re-
proof, in order that they may be helped to overcome while they are young and
to strengthen their moral constitution in that respect.   When the horoscope
of a Gemini child is afflicted there is very apt to be some  disorder of the


[PAGE 125]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

lungs  and  Gemini children will be much helped if they  are  taught  proper
breathing exercises and calisthenics.  It will at least minimize the tenden-
cies and may entirely overcome them.  Gemini children usually grow very tall
and  straight.   They are fine-looking people with a quick  walk  and  brisk
movements,  and they may be either light or dark complexioned  according  to
the placement and configuration of the planets.

                           THE CHILDREN OF CANCER

                         Born June 22nd to July 23rd

   The watery sign Cancer is one of the weakest in the zodiac so far as  vi-
tality goes and when it is upon the eastern angel of a person's horoscope it
always  gives  a rather weak body;  but usually this does not apply  to  the
children born during the time when the Sun is in Cancer,  for the Sun is the
giver of life,  and these children are therefore more fortunate with respect
to vitality that those children who have Cancer rising.

   The  children  of Cancer are usually very timid and returning,  yet  they
want and need friendship and sympathy, though they are very sensitive  about
seeking it;  but when they get well acquainted they can at times be very ex-
acting  with their friends,  even autocratic in their ways of ordering  them
about.  At the same time, it must be said they are very conscientious in all
things entrusted to them, and use considerable discretion in  whatever  they


[PAGE 126]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

do, so that one may safely trust them to keep a secrete or execute a commis-
sion.   The sign Cancer is ruled by the restless Moon, and therefore changes
of residence,  position, vocation, and of all matters, are quite frequent in
the lives of these children.   At the same time they cannot be called fickle
and flippant for they are very tenacious whenever they have undertaken to do
a certain work or undertaken a certain obligation;  they they stay by it un-
til it is finished.   Neither do they run haphazard into anything;  in fact,
there are times when they are inclined to be too cautious.  Especially where
there is danger of injury they are almost cowards,  and they are often given
to anxiety and worry.

                             THE CHILDREN OF LEO

                        Born July 23rd to August 24th

   The sign Leo is ruled by the life-giving Sun,  and it is called the royal
sign  of the Zodiac;  therefore it confers upon the children which are  born
under its influence a noble, ambitious and aspiring nature.  They are of the
Master breed and make good leaders but poor followers.  Being of a noble and
lofty  character themselves they scorn mean and sordid things nor will  they
stoop  to  do a low act even under great provocation or the strong  urge  of
self-interest.  The love nature is very strong and ardent.  No inconvenience
or sacrifice is too great to serve those they love.  They are loyal and true
friends through thick and thin.  Leo is a fixed sign and gives its  children


[PAGE 127]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

considerable will power,  so that they are usually able to win their way  to
the top despite all handicaps and obstacles.   They are very fixed in  their
opinions and if they espouse any cause they will usually stay by it and work
for   it   in  a  most  enthusiastic  manner.    They  never   do   anything
half-heartedly, for Leo being a fiery sign endows them with power,  vitality
and enthusiasm.   Leo also gives it children a good memory.   The  foregoing
tendencies  are  indicated  when  the Sun is fairly  well  aspected  in  the
horoscope;  but if it is afflicted by Mars, or any of the malefics,  the na-
ture  is  changed,  so that the person  becomes  bombastic,  blustering  and
domineering,  one not to be trusted in any department of life,  and  an  un-
faithful,  amorous husband or wife,  or a disloyal friend,  one who will not
hesitate to stoop to any meanness.   He is then just as bad as the Leo  with
the  well  aspected Sun is good,  this on the principle that  the  brightest
light always casts the deepest shadow.  The principal fault of the Leos is a
quick temper,  but they do not hold spite, and when shown to have been wrong
they are always ready to apologize and make amends.   They are  magnanimous,
even to their bitterest enemies.

                            THE CHILDREN OF VIRGO

                     Born August 24th to September 23rd

   Virgo,  the Sixth sign of the zodiac, is ruled by Mercury,  the planet of
reason, expression and dexterity.  It is said, and with considerable  truth,


[PAGE 128]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

that love is blind, for were one to see faults in the beloved one the master
passion  never would find expression.   Therefore the children of Virgo  who
are  governed so much by intellect are not sympathetic,  but inclined to  be
cynical,  critical and skeptical of anything that is not scientifically  de-
monstrable  to the reason and senses.  They are very quick mentally,  though
only  too  often included to  "strain at a gnat,"  and  though  they  seldom
"swallow the camel," they get into a rut where they become narrow-minded and
bigoted.   They are rather lazy themselves and found of taking things  easy,
but they like to drive others,  and can be very masterful with subordinates.
On that account they often cause enmities of a lasting nature,  but whenever
they become friendly with any one they also make very good friends and treat
their friends well.   The Mercurial disposition infused by this sign  brings
many  changes of environment and therefore new associations and  friendships
are constantly being formed.   They are very acquisitive and always  looking
out  for  ways and means of bettering themselves financially,  socially  and
economically.   It may also be said that they deserve promotion for they are
industrious to a degree where they see that a reward may be gained  thereby.
They  are also very ingenious and versatile,  fond of the study of  science,
particularly chemistry, diet and hygiene, and many among them become extreme
food faddists.  As Virgo is the Sixth sign these people take on  Sixth house


[PAGE 129]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

characteristics  and  are  therefore very sensitive to  suggestions  of  ill
health,  so that if they ever become enmeshed in the tentacles  of  diseases
they  frequently lack the necessary will power to extricate themselves  with
the result that they then usually become chronic invalids or perhaps  rather
they think themselves so,  for it may be said that these people seem to  re-
sent  any effort to cheer them up and get them out of the clutches of  their
particular illness, real or fancied.  They seem in fact to ENJOY bad health,
and  they are always looking for sympathy, though as we noted in the  begin-
ning  of this reading,  they are very slow to grant the same to others.   If
they  can keep out of the clutches of disease,  they often become  excellent
nurses and have a splendid influence upon the sick.

                            THE CHILDREN OF LIBRA

                     Born September 23rd to October 24th

   Libra is the seventh sign of the zodiac.  The children which are born un-
der this sign are ruled by the planet of love,  Venus.   The symbol of Libra
in  the pictorial zodiac is a pair of scales and this  instrument  describes
graphically their principal characteristic.   The children of Libra are very
ardent in anything they do;  they take up a vocation or an avocation with  a
zeal and enthusiasm which for the time being excludes all other things  form
their  consideration,  but after a while they may drop it just as  suddenly,
take up something else as a trade, a fad or a hobby, and pursue that with an


[PAGE 130]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

equal energy and absorbing interest.  This is in fact one of their principal
faults,  as they find it very difficult to settle down to anything definite,
and continue it with patience and persistence until they have achieved  suc-
cess.

   Libra is the sign where the Sun changes from the northern to the southern
hemisphere;  it crosses the equator there, and consequently the Sun is  very
weak  at that point.   It is the great life-giver going down into  the  dark
winter months,  and therefore Saturn, the planet of darkness,  is exalted in
Libra.   Thus we find two natures very markedly expressed in  children  that
are born under this sign;  one is of the Sun which is cheerful and  optimis-
tic,  the other is that of Saturn, which is morose and melancholy.  And this
expresses  itself in the changeable nature of the Libra children;  sometimes
they are up in the seventh heaven, optimistic and enthusiastic, cheerful and
happy,  then as suddenly and without any seeming cause the scale swings  and
they  seem to be down in the dumps of worry and melancholy just as  if  they
had not a friend in the world.   As a matter of fact they make many  friends
for they have a basically kind disposition engendered by the Lady of  Libra,
Venus,  but they also have a quick temper,  though fortunately they  do  not
hold  spite.   They are exceedingly fond of pleasures in  general  and  par-
ticularly lean toward art and music.


[PAGE 131]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                           THE CHILDREN OF SCORPIO

                     Born October 24th to November 23rd

   Scorpio is ruled by Mars, the planet of dynamic energy, and therefore the
children  born during that month when the Sun is passing through  this  sign
are filled with a force that must have an outlet somewhere or somehow.  They
partake in all the Martial qualities,  either good or bad,  according to the
way the Sun is placed and aspected,  and they are always ready to take up an
argument  or a fight;  either on their own behalf or for someone else;  they
are never content with half measures,  either they go to one extreme or  the
other,  good or bad.   Those who show the good side of Scorpio have splendid
constructive and executive abilities.  They are brusque but honest and just,
indefatigable workers, and always ready to sacrifice themselves for the good
of others by rebelling against oppression or in other ways unselfishly work-
ing  for the cause they have espoused.   But those who show the bad side  of
Scorpio not only refuse to work themselves but become demagogues who  incite
others to anarchy and lawlessness and destruction.   These people are social
fire-brands and very dangerous to the community.   But here is one redeeming
feature about them and that is that they are not underhanded;  whatever they
do is open and aboveboard.   The children of Scorpio usually have a very un-
certain temper and a sarcastic tongue that bites like the sting of the scor-
pion,  when  the  turn  that side of their nature.  Therefore the parents of


[PAGE 132]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

these children should take them in hand as early as possible and teach  them
self-control  by every means within their power;  also strive to soften  the
Mars ray and instil into them a more kindly spirit.   This may be very  dif-
ficult  because the sign Scorpio gives a very determined nature,  still,  in
childhood's  years it is plastic to a certain extent and can be best  worked
upon  then.   They have a very strong and vivid imagination,  with a  clear,
sharp and penetrating mind,  also a personal magnetism that makes them  very
attractive  to those with whom they come in contact.   They seem to be  most
contented in military life where there is sharp and strict discipline.  Par-
ticular  care should be taken to teach these children sex hygiene,  for  the
sign  Scorpio rules the generative and eliminative organs,  whose  functions
are stimulated by the presence of the Sun in Scorpio,  so that if the person
is  not morally and physically clean, much trouble may be  expected.   These
children also make excellent surgeons and if they are taught to use  surgery
only  for  constructive  purposes they can do a great deal of  good  in  the
world.   All this depends in a considerable measure upon the early training,
for  there is a destructive side to the Scorpio nature which would  make  it
very  dangerous from the spiritual viewpoint for such a person to take up  a
vocation  that offers scope for malpractice; he would then contract  a  very
heavy  debt under the law of consequence, which must be paid in  sorrow  and
suffering either in this or later lives.


[PAGE 133]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                         THE CHILDREN OF SAGITTARIUS

                     Born November 23rd to December 22nd

   Sagittarius is ruled by Jupiter, the great benefic planet,  and it may be
said  generally that those who are born while the Sun is in this  sign  from
November  23rd  to December 22nd are well liked in the  society  where  they
move.   They  are  of a hearty and jovial disposition,  princes  among  men,
hail-fellows-well-met,  and  their acquaintances are generally glad  to  see
them.  There are two very distinct classes born under this sign  In the pic-
torial zodiac,  Sagittarius is represented as a centaur, half horse and half
man,  and one class of those who come to birth unders its influence are well
described by the animal part thereof, for they are of a sporty nature, ready
to gamble on the speed of a horse at long odds or to stake their last dollar
on a game of cards.   They are fond of a "good time right straight  through"
and their moral nature is of low grade,  aptly described by the animal  part
of the symbol,  so that they have no scruples with respect to the indulgence
of their appetites,  passions and desires.  They are lacking in respect  for
both law and ordinary morals,  hence they are often found among the criminal
class.   But those children of Sagittarius symbolized by the human  part  of
the  centaur,  aiming the bow of aspiration at the stars,  are as  different
from  the  above as day is from night,  for they are  extremely  idealistic,
moral  law-abiding,  noble  characters  who  win  the  respect of society in


[PAGE 134]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

general  and particularly of all with whom they come into intimate  contact.
Therefore they become in time the pillars of society and often receive posi-
tions  of  honor  and preferment in State or Church as  judges  or  divines.
They are very orthodox and conservative in their opinions and punctilious to
a  fault  in  their observance of all customs and traditions  of  the  times
wherein they live, but they are not progressive, for they value the opinions
of  their contemporaries very highly and are seldom induced to  espouse  any
progressive  ideas which might jeopardize the respect of the  community  en-
joyed  by  them.   They are firm believers in the  necessity  of  red  tape.
Withal, however, they are charitable and benevolent, tender and sympathetic;
they can always be relied upon to aid any altruistic movement,  and  through
they are of a kindly nature and endeavor to avoid quarrels in their own  be-
half,  they sometimes fight with great zeal and courage for others who  have
been injured and in whose behalf their sympathies have been enlisted,  hence
they make admirable lawyers.

   The Sagittarius are usually excellent conversationalists; they have quick
and  ready wit and are fond of indulging in oratory.   Their exhibitions  of
memory and interesting way of relating experiences always hold the audience.
They are very proud and have great confidence in themselves.


[PAGE 135]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

                          THE CHILDREN OF CAPRICORN

                     Born December 22nd to January 20th

   Capricorn is ruled by Saturn,  the planet of obstruction,  therefore  the
vitality of these children is very low and they are difficult to raise,  but
once infancy is passed the Saturnine persistence makes itself felt and  they
cling  to life with an amazing tenacity so that they often become very  old.
They are very much subject to colds and their principal source of danger  is
falls and bruises.   The children of Capricorn are usually bashful and timid
in  the presence of strangers but when they have become used to people  they
show  their  domineering nature and endeavor to make everybody  around  them
conform to their will.  The Saturnine quality of the sign makes them jealous
and  suspicious of the motives of others.   Therefore they are very fond  of
detective  work.   They  will  follow a trail  with  unerring  instinct  and
unwavering perseverance that never gives up as long as there is the remotest
chance of success.   It is good to be friends with Capricornians and bad  to
make enemies of them,  for they find it very hard to forgive a real or  fan-
cied offense or injury and always brood over any wrong done to them.  On the
other hand,  if they once give their confidence or friendship they are  also
consistent in that direction.   They are very ambitious by other people  and
they  have  splendid  executive  ability because of the unusual qualities of


[PAGE 136]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

forethought  and concentration conferred by Saturn.   They are born  leaders
and  organizers  but change under restrictions and dislike  particularly  to
take orders from others.   When they are placed in such a subordinate  posi-
tion and cannot have their way they become gloomy, taciturn,  moody,  pessi-
mistic,  irritable,  and given to worry.   The children of Capricorn usually
have a disinclination for marriage and are seldom at ease if they enter into
that state.  The union is usually childless or children are few.

                          THE CHILDREN OF AQUARIUS

                     Born January 20th to February 19th

   The children of Aquarius are of a rather shy, retiring nature.  They like
to  keep  their own company and counsel more than is good for them,  for  if
this  bent in the nature is allowed full scope,  it has a tendency to  breed
melancholy  and make them recluses.   They have a quiet,  unassuming  manner
which  gains  many friends for them and their home life  is  usually  ideal.
they  are generally affectionate and of a very sweet and  kind  disposition;
they  are always ready to defer to the opinion of a loved one and  ready  to
yield a point for the sake of harmony.  Besides, Aquarius being a fixed sign
they are very constant in their affection as well as in other things.

   Aquarius  is  an intellectual sign and its children usually have  a  good
mentality,  because the Saturnine rulership gives depth to the mind, and the
Uranian  ray  gives  them  intuition  and  an  inclination  towards science,


[PAGE 137]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

literature and philosophy.   They are remarkably persistent in whatever they
undertake,  and therefore usually succeed in the long run.   As Aquarius  is
the  11th  sign it partakes also of the qualities ruled by the  11th  House;
therefore  the children of Aquarius are usually well liked among  their  as-
sociates and have many friends.  The children of Aquarius are very proud and
jealous of the esteem of others.   Their principal fault is that on  account
of  Saturnine traits they are somewhat given to worry.   As with  the  Leos,
they are strong in their likes and dislikes; they will do anything for those
who have won their affection, but resent any attempt to drive them,  and un-
der  such conditions are extremely stubborn;  in fact they are very  set  in
their mental attitude,  and once an opinion has been formed it is not easily
changed.   They are so very sensitive to the mental conditions  around  them
that  it affects their physical well being perhaps more than they are  aware
of for this is one of the most sensitive signs.

                           THE CHILDREN OF PISCES

                      Born February 20th to March 20th

   The children of Pisces are of a marked negative disposition,  subject  to
varying moods, and are, like the children of Aquarius, very sensitive to the
mental atmosphere in their environment.  For that reason it is of the great-
est  importance  that  parents of these children should  guard  them  during
childhood against the influences  of  bad  companions,  for  the old proverb


[PAGE 138]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

about "bad company corrupting good manners"  applies with ten-fold  strength
to  these children,  and they will absorb good or evil with equal  facility.
So until they have learned to choose for themselves the good things,  it  is
especially necessary for their natural guardians to shield them.   They also
have  a  strong tendency to mediumship and if they are  taken  into  seances
there is a great danger that they may become controlled.   Moreover,  having
such an extremely flexible nature they can never exert sufficient will power
to free themselves from the influence when once they have been subjected  to
it, and it may ruin their whole life.

   These children are very peaceable in disposition and suffer injury rather
than fight for their rights, not because they do not care, for they are very
jealous especially when born in the latter part of the sign, but because the
Piscean nature is averse to exertion, and generally they do not want to take
the  trouble  to fight for their rights.   In plain English they  are  lazy.
Therefore  the parents should see that a certain amount of work is  allotted
to them during the earliest years, for it is then that the habits are formed
and the nature is the most plastic.  They can learn to be diligent with must
less effort at that time than during the later stages of life.  But once the
children of Pisces have commenced doing a piece of work it will probably  be
a surprise to others to watch them and see the methodical way they go at it,
making  every  move  count  until the task has been completed with seemingly


[PAGE 139]                                      CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

very little effort on their part.   Honesty is another of the virtues of the
Pisces children; they are usually dependable and close-mouthed, so that they
may be trusted with secrets in full confidence that they will not betray the
trust.

   The  children of Pisces are generally kind and sympathetic,  cordial  and
suave  in manner,  qualities which will of course bring them  many  friends.
They are notoriously fond of good things to eat,  they revel in rich  goods,
and are also prone to be fond of drink.   If these tendencies are allowed to
work themselves out they will of course ruin the life,  and besides bring on
a train of disease.  Therefore the parents of these children should endeavor
by precept and example to teach them the simple life,  frugality and control
of  the appetite during the years when habits are formed,  besides  guarding
them  against too strenuous exercise which even the children of Pisces  will
not  shun in childhood when the abundance of life force impels  them.   Then
later  in life these lessons will not be without their fruit.   The  changes
are that the child which by the help of the parent has learned in  childhood
to rules its stars will be both healthy and hearty,  respected and loved be-
cause of good habits, and will fully enjoy life.   In short,  these children
need a very careful bringing up to save them from their evil tendencies  and
bring  out the good,  but that is just what such souls come to parents  for.
Their necessity is the parent's opportunity to make great and wonderful soul
growth.


[PAGE 140]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                CHAPTER VIII

                           THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

   The Sun,  being the center of the solar system,  is recognized by all  as
the  physical  life-giver  even  when  they  do  not  believe  in   anything
superphysical;  it is patent to everyone from personal observation that  the
horizontal  ray of the morning sun affects us differently from  the  perpen-
dicular noon ray,  and that in summer the rays carry a life-force which  not
only  brings forth the verdure upon the fields,  but also affects the  human
temperament,  and endows us with vital energy,  courage and a hopeful spirit
foreign to the dark and gloomy winter months.  This gloom is permanently no-
ticeable in the temperament of people living in the far north, where the ab-
sence  of  sunlight makes life a struggle that saps the  spirit  of  frolic,
while  in countries where abundance of sunlight lessens the cares of  exist-
ence, the temperament is correspondingly vivacious and hopeful and sunny.

   In the horoscope, the angel of each planetary ray at birth determines the
department  of life it will affect.   If the child is born at the noon  hour
when the sun is at the Zenith,  the daystar will appear in the 10th house of
the horoscope and bring preferment  professionally.  If  the child were born


[PAGE 141]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

at midnight when the sun is directly under the place of birth its  influence
would be through the Fourth House,  and it would brighten the old age of the
child then born.

   There are three unfortunate angels for the sun; Children born shortly af-
ter sunset have it in the Sixth House, which indicates sickness,  and as the
Sun  is life-giver this position lessens the vitality and recuperative  pow-
ers.  Birth in the middle part of the afternoon places the Sun in the Eighth
House.   This is the house through which the death-dealing forces  act,  and
logically, the Lord of Life is out of place in the House of Death.  The Sec-
ond House shows what income we obtain by our own efforts,  and as the Eighth
House is opposite the Second it reveals the sources of revenue for which  we
do not personally exert ourselves,  that is to say,  legacies,  pensions  or
grants of a public nature.   We have known people with the Sun in the Eighth
House  to acquire vast sums,  millions in one case,  by speculation  in  mu-
nicipal necessities.   Such persons are often threatened by death and  some-
times  have many hairbreadth escapes,  but even with the best of aspects  to
the Sun, a ripe age is seldom attained.

   When  a  child is born shortly after sunrise the Sun is  in  the  Twelfth
House,  which is the avenue whence we reap our sorrows,  and it has been our
experience that the early life of such a person is encompassed by trouble of
one kind or another.

   When  the  ascendant  of a person is in doubt and the place in the Zodiac


[PAGE 142]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

which seems to fit nearest brings the Sun into the Twelfth House, the writer
has  often found that the exact ascendant may be ascertained by  asking  the
person  if  his childhood's life was clouded by poverty of the  parents  and
consequent limitation for a number of years just after birth.   This in  all
the cases where it has been found that all other events fitted in the  horo-
scope proved a successful method of determining the true ascendant,  so that
the number of degrees from the ascendant to the Sun,  the latter located  in
the  Twelfth House,  would indicate the years of poverty,  for  the  Twelfth
House makes for limitation in that respect, especially when the Sun is there
at birth.   When the Sun by progression has passed through the Twelfth House
and  comes into the ascendant,  things begin to brighten for the person  in-
volved,  and when in time it passes through the Second House he will have  a
period  of financial success;  but as stated the Sun in the  Twelfth  House,
just above the ascendant,  usually makes a very poor home for the child dur-
ing the early years of life.  If Pisces is there the cause will generally be
found  in  slothfulness and a desire for drink on the part of  the  parents,
which make them thus neglect their offspring.

   The qualities imparted by a well placed Sun are dignity, strength of will
and  courage,  both physical and moral,  a lofty pride and a keen  sense  of
honor and responsibility which make a person eminently reliable,  a sterling
honesty and a hatred of anything small, underhanded or tricky.  It makes him


[PAGE 143]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

steadfast  in love,  staunch in friendship and generous even to enemies.   A
dignified, exalted or well placed Sun brings friendship from people in a po-
sition  to bestow substantial favors and aids the person materially  in  his
endeavors to advance in life.

   When  the  Sun is afflicted and weak by sign and  position  the  opposite
qualities are manifested;  bom-bastic self-assurance,  and bluster,  love of
adulation and a desire to rule or ruin,  but no courage to face  opposition;
indulgence of the lower nature and a waste of the vital force with a  conse-
quent loss of health and strength.   When the Sun is weak the person is  not
to be depended on; he regards his promises as pie-crusts, made to be broken,
and because of these traits such people always remain in obscurity.

   In the world at large the Sun signifies employers and those in  immediate
authority over the person, such as judges and other government officers, and
when the exigencies of life bring a person in contact with them he will  re-
ceive at their hands whatever treatment is merited by his Sun.

   The  Sun  being masculine is significator of the marriage  partner  in  a
woman's horoscope (and the feminine Moon serves a similar purpose in a man's
figure),  hence a well placed Sun is one of the indications that a man  will
make  a good husband,  and an unaspected, weak of afflicted Sun gives him  a
tendency to neglect his hearth and home.


[PAGE 144]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   As  a general significator of health the Sun rules principally in  mascu-
line figures (and the Moon in feminine horoscopes),  but both lights are im-
portant.   It may be said however,  that the health of a man is not so  much
endangered  by afflictions of the Moon as by a weak Sun,  and vice versa,  a
woman  suffers  more  if her Moon is afflicted than if  her  Sun  is  evilly
aspected.

                        THE SUN IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

                         THE SUN IN THE FIRST HOUSE

   The Sun is the source of vitality.  The First House signifies are consti-
tutional  condition  and  the  home of our childhood,  hence  the  Sun  well
aspected in the First House adds to the vitality of the rising sign and aug-
ments the recuperative powers.   It brightens life during the days of child-
hood and stabilizes the nature,  making the person more cheerful and compan-
ionable,  ambitious to succeed in life,  courageous in overcoming obstacles.
The outlook on life is joyful and optimistic,  hence the chances of  success
are increased.   People with the Sun in this position love to lead and exer-
cise authority over others;  they are very jealous of the esteem of the com-
munity, upright and honest in their dealings.

   When  the  Sun is afflicted in the First House it  lowers  the  vitality,
makes the person timid and  vacillating,  lacking  in  courage and ambition;


[PAGE 145]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

hence  the  chances of a successful life are slim unless  many  aspects  are
good, thus modifying this condition.

                         THE SUN IN THE SECOND HOUSE

   This  shows the person will find favor with people in a position to  fur-
ther his material prosperity and will be their help gain a comfortable  liv-
ing,  but it also gives a tendency to squander money on the  principle  that
"what comes easy goes easy."  Unless this trait be curbed it may bring about
financial stringency, for it is not so much what we earn that counts as what
we spend.  We shall be poor with an income of a million if we spend two.

                         THE SUN IN THE THIRD HOUSE

   This  favors travel and makes the person bright and observing,  eager  to
investigate conditions and things,  for it imparts a scientific turn to  the
mind.  It is a good position for writers as it helps to bring them to public
notice and favor.

                         THE SUN IN THE FOURTH HOUSE

   In  one sense this is very unfortunate position because it  deprives  the
person of the help of the solar influence during the major portion of  life,
which is on that account a constant uphill struggle, but as the Fourth House
rules the latter part of life it is always a  consolation  to  know that the


[PAGE 146]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

declining years will be brightened by the Sun of success.   That should make
the burdens lighter to bear.

                         THE SUN IN THE FIFTH HOUSE

   The Fifth House rules courtship; children, pleasure, education and publi-
cations;  when  the Sun is there it favors all these  except  children.   It
makes the person a favorite with the opposite sex,  gives him much enjoyment
of  life,  also success as a teacher,  publisher or  editor,  but  strangely
enough, though the Sun rules the heart whence spring our children, his posi-
tion in the Fifth House is distinctly unfavorable for their begetting.  This
is especially so if the fiery Fifth sign Leo is on the cusp.   Then the fer-
vent  heat  of passion seems to scorch the human plant ere it  has  time  to
grow.  This tendency is modified to some extent when a watery sign is on the
cusp,  but when one of the partners has the Sun in the Fifth House the  off-
spring are never numerous.

                         THE SUN IN THE SIXTH HOUSE

   Seeing  that the Sun is the Giver of Life it is evident that when  it  is
confined  in  the Sixth House it is debilitated and the vital  flow  is  ob-
structed;  therefore  people  who have the Sun in  that  position  are  par-
ticularly liable to disease and slow to recuperate.  On  that  account their


[PAGE 147]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

diseases are frequent and long-drawn-out to an extent which often amounts to
chronic invalidism.

   If the person is an employee of someone else he will be efficient in  his
work;  he  will have no difficulty in obtaining well-paid positions  but  he
will  be very touchy towards his employers and make frequent  changes  under
the pretext that his abilities are not sufficiently appreciated.   If he  is
an employer,  this position of the Sun is good for success in business,  but
indicates trouble with servants, who will be domineering.

   If the configurations in the horoscope enable the person to shake off the
grip  of sickness the Sun in the Sixth House gives great ability in  chemis-
try,  preparation of health-food,  and makes the person a capable  nurse  or
healer.

                        THE SUN IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE

   Partnerships  are  often unsuccessful because of the selfishness  of  the
participants but he who has the Sun in the Seventh House will have no reason
to  complain in that respect for he will always attract someone with a  high
sense of honor when in need of a partner,  and as marriage is the most inti-
mate  of all partnerships,  the Sun in the Seventh House is  a  particularly
fortunate position in that respect,  because it will bring the person a mate
who is absolutely steadfast and true, one who may indeed be depended upon as


[PAGE 148]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

a  helpmeet in  all  the exigencies and vicissitudes of life till  death  do
part.   As there is no earthly treasure equal to such an enduring love  this
is perhaps the best of all solar positions.

   Should the person be unfortunate enough to become involved in  litigation
the Sun in the Seventh House promotes the favor of the judge and a  success-
ful outcome.

                         THE SUN IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE

   The Eighth House is the angle of incidence through which the death  deal-
ing forces act,  and as the Sun is the giver of life it is evident that this
position  is extremely detrimental as far as vitality is concerned,  and  it
often brings a promising life to an early termination.   It also often  hap-
pens that when genius has gone begging all through life and passed the  por-
tal of death in obscurity it gains belated recognition, fame and immortality
through this position of the Sun.

   As  the Second House signifies the financial condition of the person  and
shows what he does with the money he earns,  so the Eighth shows what  comes
to him apart from his own efforts, that is to say, inheritances,  the wealth
of the marriage partner,  etc.   Therefore the Sun in the Eighth House shows
an increase of wealth after marriage but also a tendency of the  mate  to be


[PAGE 149]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

over-generous and squander the means.

                         THE SUN IN THE NINTH HOUSE

   This  position brightens the mind and imbues the person with high  ideals
and  lofty ambitions.   It makes him generously tolerant of  other  people's
opinions--noble and kind-hearted.   There is an inner urge to solve problems
of  life  and  learn  the "whys" and  "wherefores,"  hence  the  mind  turns
naturally  toward philosophy,  religion and law.  And as we always excel  in
the  things we love,  people with the Sun in the Ninth House make  excellent
statesmen, lawyers and ministers of God.  They shine in all intellectual and
scientific pursuits.  Their mission often takes them into foreign lands.

                          THE SUN IN THE TENTH HOUSE

   This is one of the surest signs of general success in life.   The  person
rises by the favor of those above him in the social scale and obtains  posi-
tions  of responsibility and trust.   He is much respected in the  community
and  often honored by election to public office,  and he may always  be  de-
pended upon to justify the trust reposed in him.

                        THE SUN IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE

   This is a good sign that the hopes, wishes and aspirations of the  person


[PAGE 150]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

will be realized;  it attracts people in a position to befriend him and with
an inclination to do so.

                         THE SUN IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE

   This  is the signature of the lonely soul who as a recluse shuts  himself
off from his fellows.   It brings with it a danger of conflict with the  au-
thorities  or an inability to fit in with the family conditions and  on  ac-
count of the ensuing trouble the person goes into voluntary or enforced  ex-
ile,  living his life henceforth a stranger among strangers.  Even when such
extreme  conditions do not prevail,  the first third of the life is  usually
wasted in vain efforts to find a balance and settle down to some life work.

   Like the Sixth House position of the Sun,  this also favors work with the
sick in hospitals, chemistry and laboratory work, or work with prisoners; it
gives a love of the occult and leads to curious lines of research.

                        THE SUN IN THE TWELVE SIGNS
 
                              THE SUN IN ARIES

Aries is the exaltation-sign of the Sun and hence this is the most  powerful
position of the central orb.   There it radiates a vital force of unexampled
strength which gives to the person a wonderful fund of  energy  wherewith to


[PAGE 151]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

withstand  the onslaughts of disease and should be taken ill his  powers  of
recuperation  will quickly free him from the clutches of  sickness.   People
having this position are principally liable to fevers on account of the fer-
vent heat of the Sun in Aries.   As Aries rules the head the excessive  heat
often dries up the scalp so that the hair cannot grow and the person becomes
bald.

                              THE SUN IN TAURUS

A favorable position for the financial fortunes but it also gives a tendency
to extravagance, especially in dress, and makes the person extremely fond of
the  opposite  sex,  sometimes with detrimental  results.   It  gives  great
physical  strength and the person loves to show off that people  may  admire
his prowess.   Taurus rules the larynx and therefore the Sun in Taurus  adds
strength to the vocal organs and gives the person a strong, pleasant voice.

                              THE SUN IN GEMINI

Gemini is a Mercurial sign and third in the gamut, hence this position gives
a blended influence of the Sun,  Mercury and the Third House.   This  favors
expression of Mercury for it is the planet which stirs the vocal chords  and
produces  sound in the Taurian larynx; it also favors writings  and  travel;
the  mind  is  brightened  by  the Sun in Gemini and when it is necessary or


[PAGE 152]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

expedient  to travel the person gains thereby physically and  mentally.   It
gives a pleasant,  affable disposition which makes him generally liked among
his associates.

                              THE SUN IN CANCER

Cancer is the fourth sign and is ruled by the Moon, hence, the Sun in Cancer
is a mixture of the Sun,  Moon and fourth House influences.   In the natural
horoscope (where Aries is on the Ascendant) Cancer is at the nadir, and with
the Sun here,  vitality is at its lowest ebb;  therefore with this  position
one is apt to be indolent even when not sickly at all.   He is harmless  and
avoids quarrels, hence is harmonious and agreeable in the home so long as he
is  not asked to work too hard.   This position of the Sun makes  the  first
part  of  the life barren of fruits but brings success in the  later  years.
Cancer  is a psychic sign and therefore the Sun in Cancer gives  a  tendency
toward the occult, often with psychic experiences.

                               THE SUN IN LEO

The  Sun  in  Leo  gives  a  masterful  nature  with  a  large  measure   of
self-control, a keen sense of honor and a never-failing integrity.  The per-
son aspires to rule others but would scorn to take a mean advantage or to do
anything  to others that would not be in strict accord with the golden rule;


[PAGE 153]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

the  affections  are  deep and lasting.   People  with the Sun  in  Leo  are
staunch defenders of those they love, but equally strong in their aversions.
Leo is the sign which rules the heart.   Whatever people with the Sun in Leo
do is done with a concentration of purpose which compels success.  They make
true friends and if one must have an enemy,  a Leo will prove more honorable
and magnanimous than any other.

                              THE SUN IN VIRGO

This is combination of the solar, mercurial and Sixth House influences.   It
shows  the successful middleman between the producer and  consumer,  subtle,
extremely  quick to see what will work to his advantage in the promotion  of
business,  pleasant and sociable,  agreeable to all from whom he expects  to
gain,  but domineering to employees and fellow workers;  a smooth talker but
not necessarily insincere; he merely looks out for number one.

   The Sun in Virgo makes good chemists,  nurses and doctors,  NOT  SURGEONS
BUT DRUG-DOCTORS; they are firm believers in medicine and lots of it.

                              THE SUN IN LIBRA

Libra is ruled by Venus and is the seventh sign, hence the Sun in Libra com-
bines the influence of Venus  with  that  of  the Sun and the Seventh house,


[PAGE 154]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

with the result that the person loves the marriage partner so devotedly that
he excludes everyone else;  for of a person with that position it may  truly
be said that "the Sun rises and sets" in the marriage partner.

   Libra is also the exaltation sign of Saturn,  and his influence is  there
at its best, giving an element of construction to the art of Venus.  This is
brought about as ability for architecture and the finer branches of  decora-
tive  construction  when the Sun is in Libra.   This position also  gives  a
fine, sonorous voice and vocal talent.

                             THE SUN IN SCORPIO

The Sun in Scorpio, when well aspected, gives great energy,  courage and in-
dependence.   It makes the mind active, and favors success in  such  occupa-
tions  as  those of the surgeon or soldier.   It also tends to  improve  the
finances after marriage, but tends to extravagance.

   The Sun here afflicted gives the person a very blunt,  brusque manner,  a
feeling that his judgment is better than that of others,  and a tendency  to
ride rough-shod over anybody or anything that stands in his way.   It  often
makes  him indifferent to suffering,  and may transform the surgeon  into  a
vivisectionist.

                           THE SUN IN SAGITTARIUS

This  gives lofty ideas and a noble aspiring disposition aiming to  rise  by
raising others.  It makes the person benevolent, philanthropic and therefore


[PAGE 155]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

beloved among his associates.   He is often the recipient of honors and  ap-
pointments  to positions of trust,  and missions of a delicate  nature,  not
could  a better selection be made,  for such people are the souls of  honor.
This position will also bring success in religion, law and statesmanship for
it  gives an expansive mind fitted to grapple with the greater  problems  of
life.

                            THE SUN IN CAPRICORN

This  is  a good sign that the person will rise in life by the  aid  of  the
good-will of people in a higher position than himself; it shows that he will
merit  their trust and acquit himself well in a position  of  responsibility
and trust; it makes him careful, prudent, faithful and honest.   Judges with
that  position cannot be bought but will administer justice as they see  it,
to all comers.   It gives an all round love of fair play and wins for  those
who have it the respect and esteem of all in their circle.

                             THE SUN IN AQUARIUS

This is a combination of the Sun,  Uranus and the Eleventh House influences.
It  gives the person an intuitive perception of the inner nature  of  things
and a touch with the forces and ideas of the  spiritual  realms  which leads


[PAGE 156]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

him to take up when possible, new and advanced cults,  or methods of healing
such as Naturopathy, Electro-therapy, Astro-therapy,  Magnetic Haling,  etc.
He  is also drawn to scientific research and ultra-intellectual  or  strange
religions.   This  position  gives much popularity and  firm  friends  among
people  who are in a position to bestow favors and further the person's  at-
tainment of his ambitions.

                              THE SUN IN PISCES

Gives a retiring disposition and favors success in occupations removed  from
the public gaze such as prisons, hospitals, institutions for the poor,  etc.
If  the person incur enmity of others,  he will be vindicated whatever  they
may do to hurt his reputation.   People with the Sun in Pisces have a strong
tendency towards psychism, mediumship and the occult in general.

                    THE SUN IN ASPECT WITH OTHER PLANETS

VENUS PARALLEL OR IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SUN calls out the artistic side of
the nature, making the person fond of music, art and poetry;  it strengthens
the love nature and if the configuration occurs in the Seventh House it is a
positive testimony of unalloyed marital bliss.  In the Second or Eight House
it leads to extravagance of the person or  his  mate;  in  Scorpio it is not


[PAGE 157]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

good for the morals and in Pisces it leads to intemperance.   These  aspects
strengthen the constitution,  increase the popularity and make social inter-
course smooth so that the person has many friends and keeps them.

   As  the  orbit of Venus is so small she never forms the  sextile,  trine,
square or opposition to the Sun.

MERCURY PARALLEL OR IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SUN.  These are the only aspects
formed between the two.   They are good for the memory and mentality if Mer-
cury is not closer to the Sun that three degrees,  for then he is  'COMBUST'
and his good qualities are burned up in the Sun's rays.   It is most  fortu-
nate to have Mercury rise BEFORE the Sun at birth for he is the  Lightbearer
who  holds the torch of reason before the Spirit which in the  horoscope  is
symbolized  by the Sun.   When he rises after the Sun the mentality  is  not
nearly so keen (unless other good aspects favor).

THE  MOON PARALLEL OR IN CONJUNCTION WITH SUN.   No matter in what  sign  or
house  the conjunction of the Lights occurs the person will be  so  strongly
marked with the characteristics of that sign that lacking knowledge of  this
true Ascendant even the most competent astrologer is likely to be misled and
judge  him  to be born with the sign rising in which  the  conjunction  took
place,  and  whatever  matters  are  ruled by the House in which conjunction


[PAGE 158]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

occurs will play a very important part in the life.   In the First House  he
is an out and out egotist with very little love for others save in so far as
they serve his ends;  in the Seventh,  his world pivots on the mate;  in the
Tenth  House or sign he will sacrifice all other considerations to  rise  in
public life; in the Twelfth House or sign the conjunction will give a strong
tendency to drink,  bringing trouble;  in the Third and Ninth Houses it will
brighten the mind and induce travel from which he will benefit;  in the Sec-
ond House it will bring wealth, especially if in good aspect with Jupiter.

   But  if the conjunction of the Sun and Moon is closer than three  degrees
it  has a tendency to deplete the vitality and if the conjunction is also  a
solar eclipse, AND THE CHILD SURVIVES, this will be particularly noticeable,
all through life.   People who have such close conjunctions or eclipses  be-
come listless, dis-spirited and out of sorts every time there is a new Moon.
The conjunction or eclipse does not seem to interfere with the good  effects
in other departments of life.

THE MOON SEXTILE OR TRINE TO THE SUN.  The good aspects of the Sun and  Moon
make for general success in life,  health,  fair financial conditions,  good
home surroundings with faithful friends,  and esteem in the community;  they
favor a rise in life because of the  person's  innate  ability, which either


[PAGE 159]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

gains  for him the recognition of people in a position to help him rise,  or
impels him to carve his own way.

THE  MOON SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO SUN makes the person vacillating  and  un-
settled in disposition,  changeable and unable to pursue a settled course in
life, rash to plunge into enterprises, but lacking the persistence or conti-
nuity  of  purpose to carry anything to a successful conclusion.   For  that
reason  such people become failures in life,  especially in  their  dealings
with women and people higher in the social scale such as employers,  the au-
thorities, judges, etc.  They always have difficulty in obtaining employment
and   keeping   their  positions  when  they  obtain  them  for   they   are
hyper-sensitive  and  ready to take offense,  with or  without  provocation.
These  configurations also affect the health,  rendering the body liable  to
colds and making recuperation slow when sickness has overtaken the person.

SATURN SEXTILE OR TRINE TO SUN endows the person who is fortunate enough  to
so  have it with some of the finest  faculties in the gamut,  for it  brings
out the best qualities in the two planets.   It gives method,  foresight and
organizing, executive and diplomatic ability with the moral stamina to carry
any project determined on to a successful conclusion despite delays and  ob-
stacles.  Yet the person makes no enemies in so doing,  for  this configura-


[PAGE 160]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

tion also makes him the soul of honor, kind and considerate;  he would never
stoop  to do anything mean for he is very sincere and just in  his  dealings
with all men,  but on the other hand,  when he believes a certain course  of
action to be right,  he will never swerve therefrom through heaven and earth
be moved against him.   These aspects bring success in political or judicial
positions also in connection with mining or agriculture.   The person  often
benefits by legacy,  but recognition and success are generally delayed  till
middle life.

SATURN  PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE SUN has a  very
detrimental effect where the resistance is fundamentally low;  in Gemini and
Sagittarius  it gives a tendency to tuberculosis.   It does least damage  in
the fixed signs where resistance is greatest,  but even there when  sickness
gets  a grip on the person it hangs on like grim death,  for it lessens  the
power of the body to throw off disease quickly,  hence recuperation is  very
slow.

   These  aspects  are extremely adverse to that which is  generally  termed
success,  but they give an abundance of experience,  so they  are  excellent
from the standpoint of the soul.  It may be truly said of the person who has
them, that "the best-laid plans of mice and men gang aft agley," for no mat-
ter how carefully he may plan his affairs he will be subject  to  delays and


[PAGE 161]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

obstacles which thwart his desires.   His marriage is unhappy and is  likely
to end in divorce or early death of the partner.  He had difficulty in find-
ing and keeping employment, trouble with employers and authorities,  a fell-
ing  as if he were held in leash all his life and denied expression  in  any
direction.   These are the outward experiences but they are generated by the
inner nature,  and until that changes he must suffer the whiplash of  neces-
sity.   In the first place he has a tendency to crawl into a shell and  shut
himself in and others out.  He is a pessimist and a kill-joy,  has little or
no  regard for the feelings of others and is very obstinate.   In the  horo-
scope  of  a woman such an aspect signifies marriage to one much  older  who
will hold her with a very tight rein; it augurs death of the husband and of-
ten several marriages which are ended by death or divorce.

   These  configurations often bring legacies, but either there  is  trouble
and litigation over the bequests,  or the person squanders the estate  after
he receives it.  If Saturn is in his exaltation sign, Libra, the latter part
of  the life may be better because the person may have taken the lessons  of
life to heart and mended his ways.

JUPITER CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL,  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO SUN.   The  conjunction
gives  a  tendency  to  apoplexy, especially if it occurs in Aries, but with


[PAGE 162]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

that exception we may say that these configurations are sure indications  of
health, wealth and happiness.  They give the person an abundance of vitality
which is proof against very sever onslaughts of disease,  and even when par-
ticularly unfavorable planetary influences succeed in breaking down his  re-
sistance,  recovery will be so rapid as to seem miraculous.  This nearly im-
pregnable  condition  of health is all the more unassailable because  it  is
backed by a disposition at once SUNNY and JOVIAL and that latter  character-
istic  also makes the fortunate possessors of these aspects beloved  by  all
with  whom they come in contact.   Everybody is glad to see the person  with
the perpetual smile, but they do more than "smile"--they earn the friendship
universally bestowed upon them by deeds of kindness,  by words of  sympathy,
cheer or hope as the occasion may demand.  They are trusted by everybody be-
cause they never betray a trust.   They have clear heads,  good judgment and
executive ability so that they are well fitted to help others.   These char-
acteristics  also  favor their own financial fortunes,  so  they  accumulate
wealth,  but theirs is never "tainted money;" they never benefit by the loss
of others.   They are religiously conservative and may be aptly described as
"pillars of society."  They shine particularly in government work.


[PAGE 163]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

JUPITER  SQUARE  OR OPPOSITION TO THE SUN is bad for the health  because  it
gives  a  tendency to form bad habits.   The person is far too fond  of  the
so-called "good things of life,"  and very selfish in supplying his own com-
forts;  he  never exercises nor denies himself so  the  circulation  becomes
sluggish and as these people have a superabundance  of blood this  sluggish-
ness  is  productive of various noxious growths  and  functional  disorders;
sometimes  a fit of anger raises the blood pressure to such a point  that  a
vessel  bursts and ends the life or leaves the person henceforth  a  useless
wreck.

   These  aspects give a bombastic haughty dispositions with  an  inordinate
love of display and thus induce extravagance both in social and business af-
fairs  with the result that the person sometimes finds himself  involved  in
debt which he cannot pay and then it is but a step to the bankruptcy  court.
A false price often prevents these people from working honestly for  others;
they would rather prey upon the public as gamblers,  followers of races  and
other  so-called sports where there is an opportunity to swindle people  and
get  what they call an "easy"  living until they land in the meshes  of  the
law.   Children  with  these aspects should be  given  special  training  in
self-restraint, thrift  and  honesty; they will have a tendency to scorn and


[PAGE 164]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

scoff  at religion,  but perhaps the memory of a devout mother may  help  to
keep them straight.

MARS PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO SUN.  The conjunction gives
a tendency to fever,  especially if it occurs in Aries,  the sign which gov-
erns  the head,  but it is curious that people with that configuration  seem
also  to be able to endure a much higher temperature than others,  and  come
unscathed through such a siege of sickness as would ordinarily prove  fatal.
With that exception these aspects all produce a super-abundance of vital en-
ergy  which assures their possessor of the most radiant health  all  through
life,  they strengthen the constitution and make the person able  to  endure
the harder tasks, and give him a dauntless determination and courage to face
the greatest odds.  Given a plan to follow he may be trusted to overcome all
physical  obstacles for he has both executive and constructive  ability  to-
gether with an indomitable will which refuses to recognize defeat.  The dis-
position  is frank and open but blunt and often brusque;  they are  too  in-
tensely  bent  on whatever they want to do to waste time in  politeness  and
suavity;  they brush the conventionalities aside without compunction and are
therefore not liked by people of too fine sensibilities; they are,  however,
men  and women of action and the foremost factors in the world's  work;  but
for their enterprise and energy the world would move much more slowly.


[PAGE 165]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

   Aspects  to  the Sun and Mars are absolutely necessary to  give  zest  to
life; even adverse aspects are better than none, for where these planets are
unaspected  the person is listless,  vapid and he will never amount to  any-
thing no matter how good the figure may be in other respects.

MARS  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE SUN also endows the person with  an  abun-
dance of energy and the faculty of leadership,  but these are turned to pur-
poses  of deviltry and destruction.   The courage implanted by the good  as-
pects becomes foolhardiness,  the person has loud,  overbearing,  swaggering
manner and is ready to fight at the drop of a hat,  he is always in  opposi-
tion to constituted authority and ready to rebel wherever he sees a  chance.
He  has an extremely fiery temper but holds no resentment.   On  account  of
these  qualities  he  is  universally disliked both  by  employers  and  his
fellow-workers, is always in hot water and never stays long in any place for
he  is an agitator and trouble-maker.  These aspects also dispose  to  acci-
dents in which the person may be maimed,  also to gunshot and  knife-wounds,
to  scalding-burns and to fevers, inflammatory complaints,  boils and  erup-
tions.


[PAGE 166]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

URANUS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO THE SUN makes the person intuitive, original, in-
ventive  and independent in his manner of conduct and  personal  appearance,
also with respect to food and certain mannerisms; he is what people call ec-
centric,  often conspicuous,  yet not offensively so;  given to pursuits and
studies which people consider "queer"  such as occultism and astrology,  but
also delving into the unknown after nature's secrets concerning  electricity
or the like.   He often becomes a successful inventor if other aspects  give
the mechanical ability to work out his schemes.   Uranus rules the ether and
now  that we are nearing the Aquarian age his vibrations will in  increasing
measure  bring  to our ken methods of using nature's finer  forces  and  the
people with the Sun sextile or trine Uranus will be the media to attract and
interpret  them  for us as the aerials and receivers in a  wireless  station
collect and transcribe the messages carried by the ether waves to which they
are  attuned.   The  person often rises in life through  the  friendship  of
people  above  him in the social scale.  He is of a  very  high-strung  tem-
perament but has himself well under control,  and rarely shows temper or an-
ger.  He is an out and out idealist.

URANUS PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION, SQUARE OR OPPOSITIONS TO SUN makes the person
very high-strung, nervous and  of  uncontrolled  emotions  ready to fly into


[PAGE 167]                                            THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

hysteria on any or no provocation.  It predisposes to all nervous  disorders
such as St.  Vitus dance,  epilepsy and lack of coordination.   it makes him
impulsive  and unreliable,  without regard for the conventionalities  highly
impatient  of  any  human restraint upon his liberty and  committed  to  the
theory of affinities,  soulmates,  and free-love,  hence an undesirable mar-
riage partner and likely to figure in divorce proceedings or scandals of  an
even worse nature.

   There is also danger of trouble on account of connection with anarchistic
plots where the inventive faculty may find scope in the construction of  ex-
plosives and infernal machines.   Unless these aspects are modified by other
configurations  these people are among the most dangerous to society.   They
are liable to accidents from lightning and electricity, and all through life
they meet disappointment in every direction.

NEPTUNE SEXTILE OR TRINE TO THE SUN favors the possibility of developing the
spiritual  faculties,  for he intensifies the spiritual  vibrations  in  the
aura.  Many people with these configurations hear the harmony of the spheres
and  if Mercury,  the lower octave of Neptune gives the requisite  dexterity
they become musicians of high inspirational nature.  In others it breed love
of the occult which  leads  them  into  the  higher  life  but  they usually


[PAGE 168]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

approach it from the intellectual standpoint of psychic investigators; a few
live the life and obtain first-hand knowledge.

NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE SUN also brings
the person in touch with the denizens of the invisible world by raising  the
vibrations in his aura, but these configurations attract the undesirable el-
ement such as met at the ordinary spiritualistic seance.   In a watery  sign
Neptune induces the person to drink to excess and then the resulting  accel-
eration  of the vibratory rate frequently causes him to perceive  the  ugly,
gruesome  forms abounding in the lower realms of the invisible world,  which
are real elemental entities and not figments as believed by people who  hear
him tell what he sees during delirium tremens.

   These aspects also make the person liable to be swindled by sharpers  and
confidence men, and easily hoodwinked.

It cannot be too strongly impressed upon readers and students that  judgment
is  never  to be formed on any planetary aspect or position apart  from  the
balance of the horoscope.   The unblended, basic nature of aspects is  given
so  that students may recognize innate tendencies and be alert  to  overcome
the evil and to cultivate the good.  The free will of the individual can al-
ways modify the horoscope, as pointed out on pages 58 and 59, and in Chapter
XXII of this book.  ("A word to the wise."--EDITOR.)


[PAGE 169]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

                                 CHAPTER IX

                          VENUS THE PLANET OF LOVE

   In the 13th Chapter of Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians we find  a
eulogy of "love."  The word used in the authorized version is "charity," but
it  ought  to  be read as "love."  Love suffereth long  and  is  kind,  love
vaunteth not herself,  is not puffed up, believeth all things,  endureth all
things.  .  .Whether there be prophecies they shall fail,  whether there  be
knowledge it shall vanish away."   He concludes that in time FAITH and  HOPE
will  pass away because we shall know the things in which we now have  faith
and our hopes will have been realized, but love,  he contends,  remains for-
ever.   The keynote of Venus is "love," "harmony,"  and "rhythm,"  and if we
want  to know her nature we may profitably read that chapter and  substitute
"Venus'  for "Love."  Venus vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up,  seeketh
not  her own,  rejoices not in iniquity but in truth,  beareth  all  things,
believeth all things,  endureth all things.  These sayings are all true when
applied to Venus for she furnishes the unifying bond between all members  of
the  human family in whatever relationship they may be placed.   It  is  the
love-ray  of Venus piercing deeply the heart of the mother which  breeds  in
her  the  tender care wherewith she nourishes her offspring through helpless


[PAGE 170]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

infancy.   Venus sounds the love call of the youth and the maiden, gives and
takes,  smoothing out all the difficulties in the conjugal career.   She  is
ever burning incense upon the altar of affection and from her garden of love
comes the flowers which scent even the most sordid souls with celestial per-
fume and raise them for the time being to the stature of gods.

   But when Venus is afflicted,  all these sublime qualities become  tainted
and  take  a  hideous aspect according to the nature  of  their  affliction.
Squares  and oppositions turn love to lust which makes the person  revel  in
sensual  gratification;  the perception of beauty which expresses itself  as
art becomes slovenliness, the tendency to self-sacrifice, the giving of one-
self  for others is turned to selfishness and the person will then  seem  to
use  others to escape any task or effort not to his or her liking,  laziness
being one of the most prominent characteristics of an afflicted Venus.

   Being feminine,  Venus never reaches out toward others, but exerts a mag-
netic energy which draws them to her.   Therefore she represents in a  man's
horoscope  those of the opposite sex to whom the person is drawn,  but in  a
woman's  horoscope Venus describes the person's own attraction for  the  op-
posite sex and Mars the masculine planet shows who will be attracted by  her
charms.

   Venus  is  essentially  dignified  in  Taurus  and  Libra, and exalted in


[PAGE 171]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

Pisces,  and  therefore her influence is most powerfully felt  when  she  is
placed in those signs.   She is weak and afflicted when placed in either  of
the martial signs,  Aries or Scorpio, where she is in her fall,  or when she
is i the mercurial sign, Virgo.  The best House position for her is the Sev-
enth where her influence will make the marriage serene and blissful.

                         VENUS IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

VENUS IN THE FIRST HOUSE has a tendency to spread sunshine over the  child's
home  and make the early life happy.  It gives an amiable character so  that
the person is well liked because of his social nature and friendly  disposi-
tion.  It brings out the love of music, art and a desire for pleasure.  This
is  what may be called "a lucky position"  for it makes the person very  at-
tractive  to  all with whom he or she comes in contact and in  that  way  it
tends to give general success in life.  It is also very good for the general
health.

VENUS  IN  THE SECOND HOUSE is an indication of financial success  in  life.
People  with  Venus in this position are usually very popular and  are  thus
helped by their friends to lucrative positions.  At the same time this posi-
tion  makes the person very wasteful and prodigal so that it tends  to  make
him  spend  more  then  he  earns.   The  money  is  usually  squandered  on


[PAGE 172]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

pleasure, dress and ornaments for self by a  woman  and for an  amour  by  a
man,  and  not  infrequently  leads  to  abuses which  undermine the health.
This position also shows gain by  dealing  in things ruled by Venus, such as
dress goods, jewelry, music, etc.

VENUS IN THE THIRD HOUSE has a particularly beneficial effect upon the mind,
making  the person cheerful,  optimistic and inclined to look at  everything
from the bright side of life.  It gives a love of music, art, literature and
everything that has a refining influence,  and unusual facility for express-
ing one's self in a happy, appropriate manner,  either in speech or writing.
It gives love of travel;  the person will enjoy himself on his journeys  and
benefit  by  them.   It also makes relations with brothers and  sisters  and
neighbors and the people in one's immediate environment congenial.

VENUS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE shows  happy conditions in the home,  particularly
in  the latter part of life.   It also indicates that an inheritance may  be
left to the person and that if he owns houses or lands he will gain much  by
them.

VENUS IN THE FIFTH HOUSE makes  the person unusually affectionate and  as  a
result he or she usually experiences a number of  love  affairs all of which


[PAGE 173]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

run their courses smoothly.  In indicates that the marriage will be fruitful
and  production of lovely and loving children.   It is a fortunate  position
for teachers and people connect with education institutions,  also for those
engaged  in publication of literature and for gain by speculation in  stocks
or similar securities.

VENUS  IN THE SIXTH HOUSE gives the person faithful servants who  will  work
for his interest if he is an employer.  If he is an employee,  it will  make
him well liked by his employers and fellow-workers.  It is a fairly good po-
sition  for health provided the person does not abuse it.   That is to  say,
the  constitution  is harmonious,  but not very strong.   If the  health  is
guarded  with  care it will remain in good condition for life,  but  a  very
little  abuse may turn the scales the other way and make the person  an  in-
valid.

VENUS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE is one of the surest signs of domestic  felicity.
It  signifies  an early marriage and an increase of  prosperity  after  that
event.   If  the person finds it expedient to enter into  partnership  on  a
business basis the presence of Venus tends to make this relationship  harmo-
nious and beneficial.  It  is  also  a  good  sign  that if litigation seems


[PAGE 174]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

necessary  some way will be found to settle the matter without  actual  rup-
ture.   This position is good for actors, singers,  and others whose calling
brings them before the public in a vocal capacity for it ensures a kind  and
sympathetic reception on the part of their audience.

VENUS IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE will bring gain by marriage, partnership or legacy
if  it is well aspected,  but if it is afflicted it brings loss  and  disap-
pointment  in love,  or an extravagant marriage partner,  and legal  trouble
over a will.

VENUS  IN  THE  NINTH HOUSE is a very fortunate position if  Venus  is  well
aspected, for being so highly elevated here it exercises considerable influ-
ence  in  life and makes the disposition exceedingly kind,  sympathetic  and
helpful  so  that by these qualities the person becomes  much  esteemed  and
sought after,  particularly in charitable or religious work,  for this posi-
tion also brings out the devotional side of the nature.   It gives a love of
music,  art and drama as well as everything that has an influence  for  soul
upliftment.  Whenever the person journeys from one place to another for gain
or for pleasure.   Venus in the Ninth House will smooth the path before  him
and make his trip thoroughly enjoyable.   If Venus is afflicted in the Ninth
House the person will long to do or to  be  all  the  foregoing  things, but


[PAGE 175]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

will find it exceedingly difficult,  if not impossible to accomplish his de-
sire.

VENUS IN THE TENTH HOUSE is one of the best signs of general success in  the
life  when  well aspected.   The person who has this position  becomes  very
popular,  particularly  with the opposite sex, and will rise in  the  social
scale  through marriage.   It gives an ability to avoid trouble in life  and
extract  from it all the pleasure there is in every situation.   Comfortable
financial circumstances attend upon the person all through life and foster a
general  attitude of optimism.   When Venus is afflicted in the Tenth  House
the  person is looked down on by those in his social environment and  though
he tries to ingratiate himself with those who are in the charmed circles, he
will  find himself left with snubs and insults.   A hasty or  ill-considered
marriage is apt to make matters worse and bring him farther into  disrepute,
as a scapegrace.

VENUS  IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE if well-aspected brings to the person hosts  of
friends  who  are willing and anxious to aid him in the realization  of  his
hopes,  wishes and desires,  but it depends upon the nature and character of
the  sign wherein Venus is placed as well as on the strength of the  aspects
whether they will be able to do so or not.  For instance, if Venus is in the


[PAGE 176]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Eleventh  House in Aries or Scorpio,  one of the martial signs where she  is
weak,  and aspected only by sextiles from Mercury and the Moon,  very little
help can be expected of her compared to what she will give if she is in  her
own signs, Taurus or Libra, and aspected by trines from the Sun and Jupiter.
In the case first cited, the friends drawn to the person may be ever so sin-
cere  in their wish to help but will not have the ability.   In  the  latter
case they will exert powerful influence and will accomplish wonders.  If Ve-
nus is afflicted in the Eleventh House it is very often found that the  per-
son  attracts friends who impose upon him and use him for their own  objects
and  when  they have so used him to the fullest extend and he  cannot  serve
their purpose any longer they throw him aside.

VENUS  IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE if well-aspected indicates that the person  will
benefit from the things signified by this House, viz., occupations connected
with prisons, hospitals or charitable institutions, or by work in a chemical
laboratory  or  by some such secluded occupation where he does not  come  in
touch with the public.   It also favors study and practice of the occult and
gives a tendency to secret, clandestine love affairs which will probably run
smoothly if Venus is well-aspected, but if she is weak by sign, or afflicted
in the Twelfth House she will cause  trouble  through  jealousy, divorce and


[PAGE 177]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

scandal,  or  sickness in confinement on account of over-indulgence  of  the
passions,  particularly if Venus is in Scorpio which governs the  generative
organs,  or in Taurus which gives the same effect by reflex action, where it
signifies self-abuse.

                          VENUS IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

VENUS IN ARIES lends ardors to the affection of Venus by blending them  with
the fire of Mars who is ruler of Aries and for that reason it makes the per-
son  very  ardent in the expression of affection.   This  usually  leads  to
popularity  especially among the opposite sex and often results in  a  hasty
marriage,  but that kind of love is not and cannot be  lasting.   Eventually
the  fire of passion burns out the love and marriages brought about by  this
position are then fruitful sources of domestic unhappiness.   This  position
also  inclines the person to be rash and impulsive whenever  his  sympathies
are appealed to,  so that he often helps an unworthy cause.   Venus in Aries
also inclines the person to general extravagance in his expenditures.

VENUS  IN TAURUS is a splendid position for there she is essentially  digni-
fied and much stronger than in the other signs with the  exception  of Libra


[PAGE 178]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

and  Pisces where she is respectively dignified and exalted.   It is a  very
favorable position for financial affairs,  especially gains derived  through
the  person's own efforts in whatever vocation in life he may  have  chosen.
It gives a friendly and sociable disposition with the ability to inspire re-
ciprocal  feelings in others.   People with Venus in Taurus are very set  in
their  opinions concerning correct form and decorum,  correct in speech  and
once they have formed an opinion they hold to it very tenaciously.  They are
generous but not extravagant.

VENUS IN GEMINI blends the beauty of Venus with the mercurial ability to ex-
press  so that people who have this configuration are able to  choose  their
words with singular facility and infuse in them a rhythm which is like music
to  the ears of a listener.   Therefore this is one of the  positions  which
make poets,  provided of course that other indications in the horoscope sup-
port,  for it should always be remembered by the student that no single  as-
pect or position is in itself sufficient to mark a prominent characteristic.
To  do this the whole horoscope must be blended.   This position has a  very
refining influence on the mind,  inclining to a literary or artistic career.
It makes the person beloved of his brothers and sisters, neighbors and other
people  in  his  immediate  environment.  This  position  also  inclines  to


[PAGE 179]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

marriage  and frequently to more than one union.   It favors traveling  both
for gain and pleasure, especially short journeys.

VENUS  IN CANCER blends the characteristics of Venus with those of the  Moon
and the psychic watery nature of Cancer.   Therefore this position gives the
person  a  very fruitful imagination and he or she is very part to  come  in
touch with the inhabitants of the unseen world or at least take up some very
devotional  phase  of  religion;  but this is  dangerous  because  Venus  is
negative,  attracting without selecting or discriminating hence makes liable
to domination by spirit controls and the dangers of mediumship.

VENUS IN LEO is compounding love,  for  Leo rules the heart and whoever  has
this position will be tender-hearted to a degree.   Contrary to the commonly
accepted  ideas  there is a cruel streak in Leo,  but when Venus  is  there,
there  is no more loving and tender sign in the zodiac,  besides being  that
Leo is a fixed sign Venus in this position makes for an unparalleled  asser-
tion  of  the affections when once they have been placed and  an  unswerving
loyalty  to the object thereof.   Being that Leo is the fifth sign Venus  in
Leo  also gives success in entertainment or educational enterprises and  the
blending of the Venus ray with the solar brings favor  from  those above the


[PAGE 180]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

person in the social scale.

VENUS IN VIRGO, the Sixth House sign gives the person a deep and tender sym-
pathy for the sick and people with this position make good nurses.  This po-
sition also favors occupation as a chemist,  or a dietitian who is concerned
with  the preparation of foods for the maintenance or attainment of  health.
If  the person has employees or subordinates under his management his  rela-
tions  with those people will always be very pleasant,  and they will  serve
him well.

VENUS IN LIBRA,  the Seventh House sign is essentially dignified and strong,
This is one of the positions which testify to a fruitful and congenial  mar-
riage or successful partnership.   It gives musical or artistic ability  and
makes the person popular in public life.  If engaged as a speaker or  singer
it ensures an appreciate audience whenever he appears in public.

VENUS  IN SCORPIO is the worst position of all in which she may  be  placed,
for here again the love ray of Venus blends with the martial fire of passion
in  the sign governing the genitals so that if there are no other  redeeming
and  restraining influences in the horoscope love turns to lust and the  un-
bridled gratification of an  exaggerated  sexual  desire,  especially if the


[PAGE 181]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

Moon  or  Mars are there.   This is apt to undermine  the  constitution  and
though that may not be apparent for a long time the effect of such a sapping
of  the vitality will some time be felt and cause a general  breakdown,  but
that,  of course, is nothing compared with the moral effect of the practices
indicated by this passion.  It should be said furthermore for the benefit of
those  who  have this position that it does not matter whether  such  abuses
take  place in wedlock or not;  Nature does not care whether they have  been
legalized by man-made law or not.   From her standpoint they are a violation
of  the  law of life and will be punished whether sanctioned by  society  or
not.   This position also gives a love of luxury and anything that stirs the
emotions  or wherein the senses may revel.   Curiously enough it also  some-
times gives a sense of deep religious devotion which them serves as an  out-
let for the overcharged feelings of the native.   This position also creates
jealousy and trouble in marriage and the reputation of the person is apt  to
be smirched.  A well-aspected Venus in Scorpio is liable to  bring a legacy.

VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS.   This is another of her strongest positions for there
her  qualities blend with those of Jupiter,  the planet of  benevolence,  to
foster love and good-will among men.  Therefore also this position indicates


[PAGE 182]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

a genial and optimistic disposition, a sympathetic, kind and generous heart,
a love of God expressed in religious devotion,  or love of man shown by phi-
lanthropy and charity.   It indicates a refined mind, cultured,  and fond of
drama, art and music.  It fosters the imagination and intuition and like the
other  double-bodies signs Gemini and Pisces,  it inclines to  plurality  of
marriages.

VENUS IN CAPRICON,  the Tenth House sign,  gives social success and popular-
ity,  but  Venus does not blend well with Saturn,  the ruler  of  Capricorn.
There is therefore a slight tendency to melancholy in people who have  Venus
in that position,  Nor are they ever secure in the favors which they receive
from other people or in their popularity, for Saturn has a tendency to throw
them  down when they have reached the highest pinnacle.   Therefore,  though
this  influence may help them to climb the ladder of advancement  in  social
circles or in business they are never safe in their position.   This  influ-
ence  makes  a person very jealous of honor and he takes it  to  heart  when
sometimes Saturn throws him down.   Venus in Saturn's sign often causes  the
person to disregard the fact that disparity in ages is so fatal to happiness
in marriage and hence if he marries young he takes someone who is much older
than himself for a partner or if married  in  later years he selects someone


[PAGE 183]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

who  is still in the bloom of youth with the almost inevitable  result  that
disagreement and dissolution of the marriage tie take place in the course of
a few years.   Frequently also people with this position of Venus marry  for
business  or as a matter of convenience.   In short Venus never reaches  her
legitimate  expression of love in Saturn's House and therefore  such  unions
are always a source of sorrow and disappointment to the contracting parties.

VENUS  IN AQUARIUS indicates a blending of the Uranian  qualities,  indepen-
dence,   impatience  of  restraint,  disregard  of  convention,  desire  for
originality, uncompromising sincerity and intuition, with those of Venus and
as a result we find that people with this position refuse to be bound by the
usual  restrictive rules of society in their love affairs and  follow  their
heart's  inclination regardless of what others may say or think.   They  are
firm believers in the theory of soul-mates, affinities,  et cetera,  and li-
able  to  act in the most unexpected manner with such  startling  suddenness
that  neither they nor anyone else are able to foresee what they may say  or
do next.   But at the same time they are so loving and sincere in their con-
victions that friends never fail them and  whatever  success  they attain in


[PAGE 184]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

life is usually due to the efforts of friends to help them to realize  their
hopes, wishes and aspirations.

VENUS  IN PISCES is in her own exaltation sign where she again  blends  with
the benefic ray of Jupiter and as Pisces is a watery sign this position sig-
nifies a powerful emotional nature, subdued and toned down by the element of
sorrow  inherent in the twelfth house sign.   This position therefore  indi-
cates someone capable of feeling a sentiment such as that felt by our Savior
when He said:  "Come unto Me all ye that are weak and heavy laden and I will
give you rest."  Thus Venus in Pisces indicates a nature yearning and aching
to  assist those who are afflicted by bodily ills or suffering from  sorrow.
This position also gives an intense love of music and when other testimonies
concur,  considerable ability to express either vocally  or  instrumentally,
for music is the most wonderful outlet for the deepest emotions of which the
human soul is capable.  People with Venus in Pisces are especially liable to
financial  imposition on the part of others and trouble through  an  illegal
marriage.


[PAGE 185]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

                     VENUS IN ASPECT WITH OTHER PLANETS

   THE SUN PARALLEL OR CONJUNCTION VENUS calls out the artistic side of  the
nature,  making the person fond of music, art and poetry.  It also strength-
ens the love-nature and if the configuration occurs in the seventh house  it
is a positive testimony of unalloyed marital bliss.  In the second or eighth
house it leads to extravagance of the person or his mate,  in Scorpio it  is
not good for the morals and in Pisces it leads to intemperance,  but  gener-
ally  speaking,  these  aspects strengthen the  constitution,  increase  the
popularity and make social intercourse smooth so that the person finds  many
friends and keeps them.

   As  the  orbit of Venus is so small she never forms the  sextile,  trine,
square or opposition to the Sun.

   MERCURY CONJUNCTION, PARALLEL OR SEXTILE TO VENUS  (Note.--Venus and Mer-
cury are never more than 76 degrees apart,  therefore they can only form the
conjunctions,  parallels and sextiles, but not the trine, square nor opposi-
tion.)

   These  aspects  make  the  person  cheerful  and  companionable  with   a
good-natured disposition and a desire for society.  They also give the abil-
ity for music and poetry,  especially if in the Ascendant and are a  general
indication of success  in  salesmanship,  for such people are suave, affable


[PAGE 186]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

and persuasive.

   THE MOON CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO VENUS.   The Moon is
significator  of marriage for a man and therefore the good  aspects  between
Venus, the planet of love, and the Moon are good indications of a happy mar-
riage  when  they occur in a man's horoscope.   But in a  woman's  horoscope
these aspects operate upon the health,  for the Moon is the planet of fecun-
dity and has rule over the female functions in particular which are so large
a factor in the health of a woman;  this latter is much strengthened by  the
good aspects of the Moon and Venus.  These aspects make the person an orator
with a fruitful imagination;  give love of pleasure,  music and art,  and an
engaging personality,  very attractive to the opposite sex,  because kindly,
affectionate and sympathetic.   They tend to general success in life and the
person usually has sufficient for the day and the way.

   THE  MOON  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO VENUS is an indication of  trouble  in
marriage for a man, because the wife described by an afflicted Venus will be
slovenly and of dissolute habits which will destroy domestic happiness.   In
a woman's horoscope it indicates disturbance of the female functions and  it
also gives a tendency to digestive troubles and poor circulation when in the


[PAGE 187]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

horoscope  of either sex.   These aspects also give a liability  to  trouble
through slander and public scandal.

   SATURN SEXTILE OR TRINE TO VENUS.   The good qualities of Venus are  love
and affection and the good qualities of Saturn are tact, diplomacy,  method,
system, justice, thrift and economy.  We may therefore judge that when these
two  planets are configurated in good aspect they make the  person  faithful
and true,  just and methodical,  qualities which make for success in all de-
partments  of  life.   Therefore a person with these aspects  will  be  much
sought as a friend or advisor, or as a person to be trusted with any commis-
sion requiring sterling honesty and ability.  They make the person simple in
his tastes and of impeachable morality, and give honor,  esteem,  health and
easy circumstances.

   SATURN PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO VENUS brings  out
the evil qualities of the two planets and troubles which are thus  generated
usually come through the person's relations with the opposite sex.  It makes
him  underhanded  and scheming to gratify his passions often in  an  unusual
manner  and his perverted desires are usually directed against some one  who
is  much younger than himself.   If regular marriage relations  are  entered
into, such a person is usually a demon of  jealousy  who makes life a burden


[PAGE 188]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

for the marriage partner on account of his suspicious nature.   People  with
these  afflictions  are  also stingy in all money  matters  and  exceedingly
avaricious.   They have poor business judgment and are therefore  liable  to
losses, failure and bankruptcy.

   JUPITER PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO VENUS is one of  the
nest signs of success and general good fortune.   It favors the accumulation
of wealth and the enjoyment of all the luxuries of life.  It is a good indi-
cation of a successful and happy marriage,  social prestige and the  respect
of all whom the person comes in contact.  It gives the person a jovial,  op-
timistic,  generous and large-hearted disposition, and makes hospitable to a
degree; interested and active in philanthropic measures, a liberal mind tol-
erant of the views of others even where he differs radically,  fond of plea-
sure, traveling parties, and capable of enjoying life to the fullest extent.
These aspects also give talent for music,  especially if either planet is in
Pisces.

   JUPITER SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO VENUS gives the same luxurious likings as
the  good  aspects,  but limits the ability to satisfy them;  although  such
people  make the most frantic efforts to present a fine front to the  world,
they are generally found out to be shams.  Their lack of business ability is
often responsible for failure and bankruptcy and they  are  very  liable  to


[PAGE 189]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

suffer losses through the treachery of others.   Love and marriage also  are
sources of sorrow for those whom Venus and Jupiter are afflicting.  They are
apt to be jilted before marriage or the marriage partner may prove faithless
and may abscound.   These aspects also produce and amorous nature likely  to
take liberties regardless of the laws of decency and to be faithless to mar-
riage  vows.   They make people extremely self-indulgent and in Pisces  they
predispose to drink.

   MARS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO VENUS will give an ambitious,  aspiring and  ad-
venturous nature, amorous and extremely demonstrative in its affection, very
fond  of sports and pleasures.   It gives the person an abundance of  energy
and business acumen,  consequently he has a splendid earning capacity but he
wastes money for he loves above all things to make a great outward show  and
display.  Being a free spender he is also very popular among his associates,
and  being,  as already said,  of an amorous nature he marries  either  very
early or the marriage is a very hasty one.

   MARS CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO VENUS does not always operate in the same
manner,  but is to be classed as a good or bad aspect according  to  circum-
stances and the matter to be judged.   For instance,  Mars conjunction Venus
makes the person less blunt and domineering,  more  kind  and  polite; it is


[PAGE 190]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

therefore good in that respect; but the conjunction also strengthens he pas-
sional nature,  especially if it occurs in Scorpio; and in the Twelfth House
it leads to self-abuse so that in those cases it is decidedly bad.

MARS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION VENUS.  See page 330.

URANUS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO VENUS makes the person mentally alert,  of  quick
intuitive  perception and exceedingly magnetic,  especially to the  opposite
sex;  and he also attracts hosts of friends who will be a benefit and assis-
tance to him.   These aspects give love of art, music and poetry and are fa-
vorable  indications of a happy marriage often at a very early age,  or  one
suddenly consummated.   They also sometimes bring the person love of a  pla-
tonic nature.

URANUS  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO VENUS.   There is a doubt as  to  whether
these  aspects should be classed as good or evil,  which must be settled  in
the individual horoscope where they occur for they may work either way,  de-
pending  upon the other configuration.   If Venus is otherwise afflicted  in
the horoscope,  for instance the conjunction or parallel will further accen-
tuate her evil qualities,  but if she is well placed or aspected Uranus will
bring out the nobler side.


[PAGE 191]                                         VENUS, THE PLANET OF LOVE

URANUS  SQUARE  OR OPPOSITION TO VENUS.   The square  or  opposition  always
brings  trouble through the sex relation:   a hasty,  ill-considered  union,
quarrels, divorces, public scandals through clandestine intercourse and kin-
dred  irregularities,  with loss of friend,  prestige and popularity,  exile
from  home and family and sudden financial losses through unexpected or  un-
foreseen happenings.  There is a general lack of balance, an erratic person-
ality.

NEPTUNE SEXTILE OR TRINE TO VENUS makes an inspirational musician.  It gives
a fertile imagination and deep emotions,  a nature that is pure and  chaste,
hence occasionally it leads to platonic unions and companionship of the most
esthetic nature.

NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO VENUS is to be judged on the same line as
indicated in the case of Mars and Uranus.

NEPTUNE  SQUARE  OR OPPOSITION TO VENUS makes the person liable  to  sorrow,
loss and trouble,  especially through the marriage partner or anyone else in
whom he trusts.  People with these aspects should be particularly careful to
avoid anything which has in it an element of chance or speculation, for they
are  sure to lose,  especially in dealing with large companies  or  corpora-
tions.

                             --- END OF FILE ---


