[PAGE 192]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                  CHAPTER X

                        MERCURY, THE PLANET OF REASON

   Mythologically  Mercury is represented as a "Messenger of the  Gods"  and
this  is the line with the occult facts,  for when infant humanity had  been
led astray by the marital Lucifer spirits and had fallen into GENERATION  it
became necessary for the other divine hierarchies to take steps looking to a
future  REGENERATION  and  to further that object the Lords  of  Venus  were
brought to the earth to educate humanity in such a manner that love might be
substituted  for lust and men might thus be induced to aspire  to  something
higher.   While  the Lords of Venus dealt with mankind in general  the  most
precocious  among  them were taken in hand by the Lords  of  Mercury;  whose
wisdom-teaching  is  symbolically represented by the caduceus or  "STAFF  OF
MERCURY," consisting of two serpents twining around a rod and indication the
solution of the riddle of life,  or "Whence have we come,  why are we  here,
and whither are we bound?"  showing the pupil the spiral path of  INVOLUTION
by which the divine spark has buried itself in matter,  also the spiral path
of EVOLUTION by which humanity will eventually again reach the Father's  bo-
som,  and the short road of INITIATION represented by the central rod around


[PAGE 193]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

which the serpents twine.   But to understand these Mysteries requires  mind
and  reason.   Mercury then is the mental educator of men and its place  and
position in the horoscope shows the status of the person's mind for whom  it
is cast.

   Being the Messenger of the Gods to the other planets Mercury has no voice
of  its  own and is even more dependent for expression upon the  aspects  of
other planets than the Moon which rules the instinctual mind.  So Mercury is
really  a focus through which the faculty of reason finds expression in  the
human being to act as a brake upon the lower nature and assist in lifting us
from the human to the divine.   Many may and do feel deeply,  they may  also
have valuable knowledge,  but they will be unable to express their  feelings
or shore their knowledge with others if Mercury is lacking in aspects.  Even
a so-called evil aspect of Mercury helps to bring out what is within and  is
therefore better than none.

   When Mercury is so placed in relation to the Sun it goes BEFORE the lumi-
nary it has the effect of materially brightening the mind,  for the Sun rep-
resents  the Ego and it may therefore be said that then its path is  illumi-
nated by the lamp of reason.  On the other hand if Mercury is so placed that
it  rises  later than the Sun and thus follows AFTER the  luminary  The  Ego
learns  more  by afterthought than by forethought for it walks comparatively


[PAGE 194]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

speaking  in the dark and must learn a great many of its lessons by  experi-
ence.

   As we have found that it is difficult for a number of young  students  to
determine  when Mercury goes before or after the Sun we may say  in  farther
elucidation of that subject:

   When  Mercury is in a lower degree of the same sign as the Sun or in  any
degree  of the previous sign then as a matter of course he rises BEFORE  the
Sun.   To illustrate:  If the Sun is in twenty degrees of Cancer and Mercury
is in five, ten or fifteen degrees of that sign or if he is in any degree of
Gemini, then he rises BEFORE the Sun.

   But if he is in twenty-five degrees of Cancer which is a higher degree of
the same sign, or if he is in any degree in Leo which is the sign succeeding
Cancer, then he rises AFTER the Sun and loses part of his good influence.

   A  retrograde Mercury is also a detriment to the faculty of reason.   But
in the year of life when Mercury by progression again turns direct, the rea-
soning  faculties  will improve correspondingly.  Mercury is strong  in  the
airy signs, Gemini, Libra and Aquarius, but he is exalted and therefore most
powerful  in Virgo.   Mercury has special rule over agents  and  messengers,
salesmen,  postmen and other common carriers,  people engaged in advertising
or printing, literary men, writers, reporters, secretaries,  clerks,  steno-
graphers  and typewriters,  commission men and other middle men, demagogues,
confidence-men and thieves.


[PAGE 195]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

                        MERCURY IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE

    MERCURY IN THE ASCENDANT,  OR FIRST HOUSE makes the person  quick-witted
and sharp according to the nature of the sign rising and the aspects of  the
planets  which  he receives.   The fiery signs and the airy signs  have  the
strongest influence in that respect.   In Aries or Leo he is more  impulsive
than when rising in Sagittarius,  but Gemini,  Libra and Aquarius are  best.
When Mercury is rising in the watery signs Cancer or Pisces the intellect is
dull,  but  rising in Scorpio where it is fired by the  martial  energy  and
armed with the venomous sting of the scorpion it has a somewhat similar  in-
fluence to that of Mars in Scorpio through not quite so pronounced.

    MERCURY  IN THE SECOND HOUSE is good for gain through mercurial  occupa-
tions especially where the person is employed by someone else so that he ap-
pears in a true mercurial capacity as agent,  messenger,  clerk,  writer  or
whatever else.

    MERCURY IN THE THIRD HOUSE and well-aspected has wonderful influence  on
the mental qualities of the native.   It makes the mind serene and  optimis-
tic, inclined to study and research work.  It gives fluency as a speaker and
success  by short journeys or travel and makes the relations of  the  person
harmonious with his brothers.   When Mercury is afflicted in the Third House


[PAGE 196]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

it  inclines to worry and pessimism, trouble and annoyance with sisters  and
brothers and when on short journeys.

    MERCURY  IN THE FOURTH HOUSE gives instability to home  conditions.   It
signifies the homeless wanderer who is always moving from place to place un-
less a good aspect to Saturn comes in to steady him down.  This is, however,
a  good aspect for people engaged in mercurial occupations which  require  a
stationary residence,  such as librarian, or literary men engaged in newspa-
per work, employees in printing establishments, commission houses,  agencies
and kindred organizations.   If Mercury is afflicted by Saturn the home con-
ditions of the person will cause him a great deal of worry.

    MERCURY IN THE FIFTH HOUSE centers the mind upon education,  amusements,
courtships and children.   If Mercury is well-aspected by Saturn or  Jupiter
it  gives depth to the mind and makes the person successful  in  enterprises
connected  with education,  publishing or public amusements.   Good  aspects
from Mars or Venus give success in courtship but the adverse aspects of  the
planets make the person cruel; he is inconstant in affection toward those he
professes to love,  inclined to worry over affairs of his children,  and su-
perficial as a teacher.  A good  aspect from the Sun is an excellent indica-


[PAGE 197]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

tion of success in a government position, in an educational capacity.

    MERCURY  IN  THE  SIXTH HOUSE makes the mentality  too  active  for  the
person's  own good,  for he is extremely ambitious and therefore  liable  to
over-tax himself to the detriment of his health,  and the disability of  the
nervous  system is most likely to express itself by a digestive disorder  in
the region governed by Virgo, the sixth sign,  viz.,  the intestines.   Such
people  are supersensitive to the conditions of others which  affects  their
health bringing much trouble and worry in dealing with servants and subordi-
nates.  They are fond of the study of hygiene and diet and meet with consid-
erable  success in the practice of the chemistry of foods,  particularly  if
Mercury is well-aspected.   Adverse aspects of Saturn to a Sixth House  Mer-
cury make a chronic invalid of a most melancholy mind.   The adverse aspects
of  Mars  and Uranus are fruitful sources of suicide through  brooding  over
disease.

    MERCURY IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE and well-aspected makes the person  popular
in literary and scientific circles.  It is a good position for public speak-
ers and all who are engaged in mercurial activities of a public nature.  But
if  Mercury is afflicted the Seventh House position brings a great  deal  of
hostile criticism of a public nature  and is liable to involve the person in


[PAGE 198]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

litigation either to defend himself against libel from others or on  account
of libel committed by himself.  A well-aspected Mercury in the Seventh House
indicates a successful marriage to a relative or an employee,  but when Mer-
cury is afflicted either the person or the marriage partner is of a  nagging
nature so that the married life is spoiled by constant quarrels and disputes
on account of fickleness and faithfulness.

    MERCURY IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE when well-aspected gives gain through liter-
ary or scientific agencies, occupations or other mercurial pursuits provided
they  are carried on in partnership with someone else.   This position  also
indicates  that the person may receive a legacy and it is a good  indication
of  the financial success of the marriage,  but if Mercury is afflicted  its
position  in the Eighth House indicates financial troubles for the  marriage
partner and litigation probably in connection with a legacy left to the  na-
tive.

    MERCURY  IN  THE NINTH HOUSE and well-aspected gives love  of  religion,
science,  letters and law,  a studious mind capable of delving  deeply  into
profound problems of life and being,  philosophic and philanthropic  tenden-
cies, and desire to travel far if need be in the pursuit of knowledge.  This
position gives facility in speech and writing and success in religion,  phi-
losophy, law or science.  The mind is broad,  flexible and adaptable, there-


[PAGE 199]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

fore  the person is liable to change his views several times in his life  on
the  various subjects which he has studied, but there will always be a  good
reason for adopting another viewpoint.

   If  Mercury is afflicted in the Ninth House he makes the  person  exceed-
ingly unstable of mind, changeable as a weather vane in all his pursuits and
activities.  Such a person will never stay by anything long enough to try it
out and therefore he will meet with a series of disasters all through  life.
Probably  he may journey from one place to another in search of success  but
he  will never find it until he learns to concentrate his energies upon  one
thing.   This position is also a fruitful source of trouble with the law  or
legal affairs.

    MERCURY  IN THE TENTH HOUSE, well-aspected,  shows adaptability and  re-
sourcefulness  such as enable the person to cope with all the  contingencies
of life.   It makes a successful lecturer,  publisher or writer and is  also
favorable to success in one of the occult occupations.  If Mercury is placed
in  one  of the airy signs the power of expression is much  enhanced.   Fre-
quently  people with Mercury in this position have several occupations,  but
usually they succeed best in a subordinate capacity.

    MERCURY  IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE brings a great many  acquaintances  among
literary,  scientific  or  other  mercurial  people  but  none  of  them are


[PAGE 200]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

sufficiently   steadfast   to  be  relied  upon  unless  Mercury   is   very
well-aspected.   This position has a tendency to make a person critical  and
cynical.   It sharpens his intellect,  however, and gives him a good flow of
language.

    MERCURY IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE,  if well aspected gives a mind  peculiarly
fitted to delve into the mysterious, occult or secret things.  This is espe-
cially the case if Mercury is between the Sun and Midheaven,  that is to say
if Mercury goes BEFORE the Sun or rises earlier than that luminary, for then
all the light that is in the spirit seems to shine forth and make the person
intellectually keen and bright.   Therefore this is a good position for  de-
tective  work  as well as scientific or occult research work.   Chemists  of
great ability have been produced under this aspect for such people have  the
faculty  of going into the most minute details in things which  seem  micro-
scopic and unimportant to others.   When Mercury is in the Twelfth House and
afflicted, especially by Saturn or Mars, also when COMBUST or BEHIND THE SUN
there is a danger that the mind may become clouded and insanity may  result.
It may also be noted that the affliction will vary according to the way Mer-
cury  is  aspected;  if by Mars or Uranus the  subject  may  be  exceedingly
violent, if by Saturn he will become melancholy, but whatever the cause,  if


[PAGE 201]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

Mercury  is afflicted in the Twelfth House some form of limitation will  re-
strain the spirit, for the Twelfth House is the house of limitation and con-
finement.

   Deafness is also the result of this position of Mercury when severely af-
flicted by Saturn.

                         MERCURY IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

    MERCURY IN ARIES makes the person very argumentative,  fond of disputes,
quick at repartee,  with a tendency to exaggerate though not necessarily  by
design.  If well-aspected he is broad minded and tolerant of the opinions of
others,  of a studious nature, quick to grasp situations and ideas, neat and
orderly.   When  afflicted Mercury in Aries makes people  leap  before  they
look,  the mind is vacillating and there is a general recklessness about the
person  who is thus very unreliable and devoid of all sense of  responsibil-
ity.

    MERCURY IN TAURUS gives a mind that is not very soon made up but when it
has  once arrive at a conclusion it is almost as difficult to change as  the
laws of the Medes and Persians.  However,  being based upon thought and rea-
son the judgment of these people is also extremely reliable.   They  believe
thoroughly in the ancient adage that "Silence is golden"  and are  therefore


[PAGE 202]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

close-mouthed.  They are good counselors and can be depended  upon  to  keep
secret. At the same time they are not recluses, but have a  pleasant, socia-
ble disposition.   They are fond of fun and recreation, they love music, art
and literature,  so they are thoroughly likable people if  Mercury  is well-
aspected. But if Mercury is  afflicted  they  become  what  the  Scotch call
"DOUR," also obstinate, stubborn, secretive and avaricious.

    MERCURY IN GEMINI makes a person fond of change and travel.   He is  al-
ways  ready to investigate some new thing,  or go to some other place for  a
change;  in short, almost anything that is new appeals to him.   At the same
time  if Mercury is well-fortified such people gain greatly by this  fluidic
state  of the mind for they are shrewd and penetrating in their judgment  so
that they know good value when they see it and are not prejudiced by precon-
ceived,  set opinions.  Therefore they are good business men and their abil-
ity to see a point makes them particularly good lawyers.   They also succeed
well as traveling salesmen.

    MERCURY IN CANCER gives a clear intellect, a good memory and superlative
adaptability.   People with this position fit into any place  or  occupation
they  may  find and adapt themselves to the opinions and  ideas  of  others.
They love praise and flattery, therefore they are careful not to do anything


[PAGE 203]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

whereby they may forfeit the good opinion of others.

    MERCURY IN LEO gives high ideals and aspirations, a positive, strong and
persevering  intellect which scorns to stoop to low and mean acts,  and  de-
spises   equivocation;   is  blunt  and  out-spoken,   quick-tempered,   but
kind-hearted  and sympathetic.   People with Mercury in  Leo  well-fortified
have good organizing ability and make capable leaders.   They love  children
and  are also fond of pleasure.   When Mercury is afflicted in Leo it  makes
the person fickle and inconstant in his affections,  an unsuccessful gambler
and speculator, a low and sensual nature.

    MERCURY IN VIRGO is at the zenith of his power for there he is  exalted,
consequently when well-aspected it gives a clear, logical,  scientific mind,
eloquence  and the ability to express oneself fluently in a number  of  lan-
guages.   It gives the person a comprehensive,  discriminating outlook  upon
life,  his  conclusions are usually practical and to the  point  because  he
also,  like the Taurian Mercury, looks before he leaps.  In short this char-
acteristic is in a degree true of all the earthy signs.  When Mercury is af-
flicted  in Virgo it makes the man irritable,  petulant and selfish,  always
looking  for  flaws  in  everything he comes across.  People with Mercury in


[PAGE 204]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Virgo  make excellent dietitians and chemists.   They also have  an  unusual
dexterity.

    MERCURY IN LIBRA,  when well-aspected gives a broad,  well-balanced mind
with  a  love of art and music and an uncommon ability  of  expression.   It
brings success as a public speaker and sometimes as a singer.   When Mercury
is afflicted in Libra it indicates trouble by lawsuits through  partnerships
and an unfaithful marriage partner.

    MERCURY IN SCORPIO gives a shrewd mind,  a keen aspiration,  a quick wit
and  a  sharp tongue with biting sarcasm that can sting like  the  scorpion.
The disposition is bold and stubborn, headstrong and difficult to get  along
wit.   But these people are extremely resourceful,  dauntless,  and able  to
overcome difficulties which would crush others.   They are attracted to  the
occult, a a needle is drawn to a magnet.  When Mercury is afflicted they are
subject to disappointment in everything they undertake, quarrelsome, skepti-
cal and cynical, always holding opposite views to others.

    MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS.   Though in detriment it is still a strong posi-
tion  of  Mercury and if he is well-aspected it gives an  exceedingly  noble
mind of a religious and philosophical turn, a mind which scorns the shackles
of conventions where they  interfere  with freedom of thought and speech yet


[PAGE 205]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

does not fly into paths that are contrary to the commonly accepted standards
of moral usage and conduct.  It always confines itself within the boundaries
of  law  and order and people with Mercury in this  position  are  therefore
greatly respected in the community.  Mercury in Sagittarius makes the person
fond  of travel to see the sights and scenery of nature and  to  investigate
the customs of strange people.   He is also fond of animals and pets.   When
afflicted  it  inclines to lawlessness, dishonesty,  sophism and  a  twisted
character.

    MERCURY IN CAPRICORN gives a critical and penetrating but somewhat  sus-
picious  mind  with a thoughtful and diplomatic disposition,   These  people
make splendid spies and detectives, having the ability to ferret out secrets
in  the most uncanny manner.   They also have the persistence of  Saturnians
derived  from the sign Capricorn so that they never give up until their  ob-
ject   has  been  attained.   This position gives a love  of  science,  par-
ticularly chemistry.  These people are much attracted to the occult, yet are
practical and very thrifty.   They hold on to what they get and always  have
something  for a rainy day.   When afflicted Mercury in Capricorn makes  the
person miserly, cruel, hard, malicious, vindictive and spiteful.


[PAGE 206]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

    MERCURY IN AQUARIUS gives the Uranian qualities of originality and inde-
pendence  and  an unconquerable love of liberty to the mind so  that  people
with  Mercury in this position are apt to repudiate all the  social  conven-
tions and live according to their highly idealistic conceptions.  They often
take no heed of fashion, and dress in a style entirely their own.   They ad-
vocate  ideas  on social subjects which are a thousand years  ahead  of  the
world's  development,  among them the theory of  soul-mates  and  affinities
which  is  causing so much trouble in the world today because  it  advocates
have not yet grown to the spiritual stature where they can separate it  from
sex and live the true Uranian love-life which is altogether spiritual.   The
foregoing  delineations  apply  particularly where Mercury  is  aspected  by
Uranus  and the people described by them are the extreme product of  Mercury
in Aquarius.   All who have this position,  however,  are very intellectual,
they have high ideals and aspirations,  a love of popular science and  math-
ematics and are usually attracted to the occult sciences also, especially to
astrology, for they have a fine faculty for reading the horoscope.  They are
kind, sociable and fond of friends with the result that they usually attract
large numbers of intellectual people to their circle of acquaintances.  When


[PAGE 207]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

afflicted this position makes the person disloyal and ready to prey upon his
friends, or criticize and slander them.

    MERCURY IN PISCES the occult water sign, seems to endow the mind with  a
certain psychic faculty which is not so much intuition as imagination.  They
think or imagine that something must be so and so and it is a startling fact
that they are usually correct, but this ability brings them dangerously near
to mediumship if Mercury is afflicted or when Neptune,  the higher octave of
Mercury,  is in the Twelfth House.  Therefore this is rather a dangerous po-
sition.  If Mercury is afflicted by Saturn this position in Pisces makes the
person liable to gloom and the mind will be subject to constant worry with a
turn  toward melancholy.   Usually,  people with Mercury in Pisces are of  a
kindly and benevolent disposition.  This also is a good indication that suc-
cess  may be attained in chemistry and as a dietitian in the preparation  of
health foods.

                  MERCURY IN ASPECT WITH THE OTHER PLANETS

   THE SUN IN PARALLEL OR CONJUNCTION WITH MERCURY.   These are the only as-
pects ever formed and are good for the memory and mentality provided Mercury
is  not closer to the Sun than three degrees,  for then he is "COMBUST"  and
his good qualities are burned up in the Sun's rays.  It is most fortunate to
have Mercury rise BEFORE the Sun at Birth for he is then the Lightbearer who


[PAGE 208]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

holds  the torch of reason BEFORE the Spirit which in the horoscope is  sym-
bolized by the Sun.  When he rises after the Sun the mentality is not nearly
so keen (unless other good aspects favor).

   VENUS PARALLEL, CONJUNCTION OR SEXTILE TO MERCURY.  Venus and Mercury are
never more than 76 degrees apart,  therefore they can only form the conjunc-
tions, parallels and sextiles, but not the trine, square nor opposition.

   These  aspects  make  the  person  cheerful  and  companionable  with   a
good-natured disposition and a desire for society.  They also give the abil-
ity for music and poetry, especially if in the Ascendant,  and are a general
indication  of SUCCESS in salesmanship for such people are very  suave,  af-
fable and persuasive.

   THE MOON IN PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MERCURY gives  a
receptive mind and a retentive memory, two very rare qualities and therefore
these aspects,  particularly the sextile and trine,  are good indications of
success in life,  especially in one of the mercurial occupations,  literary,
clerical  or traveling.   People with these configurations are usually  very
verbose,  particularly if the conjunction or trine occurs in airy signs or a
sign of voice, for then the power of expression reaches a superlative degree


[PAGE 209]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

and such people become able linguists and elocutionists; but unless there is
some steadying  influence people with configurations of Mercury and the Moon
are not  reliable because of their tendency to change their minds repeatedly
in the most unexpected manner.   They are inclined to look  upon  the bright
side of life and are fond of pleasure, particularly travel.

   THE MOON SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MERCURY gives a poor memory and lack  of
mental stability with a tendency to indecision and worry, liability to brain
storms and hysterics.   These characteristics make the person unpopular  and
as the saying is, "unlucky."

   SATURN SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MERCURY acts as a brake upon the flighty  mind
and gives it a seriousness,  depth and concentration which is of inestimable
value in life.   The forethought and profound reasoning ability indicated by
these  aspects  insure success in whatever vocation the person  may  pursue.
The  patient persistence which permits no temporary failure to stand in  the
way of ultimate success; their caution and diplomacy make such people invin-
cible in the long run.  Therefore they generally become prominent in connec-
tion with some serious enterprise such as secrete societies,  the church  or
even  politics or governmental affairs.   They are in demand for high  posi-
tions in great undertakings  where  a  steady  hand is required on the helm.


[PAGE 210]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

But they do not usually shine in public for they are very quiet, subdued and
serious in their manner and demeanor; besides they are absolutely honest and
fairminded, hence they make the very finest judges obtainable.

   SATURN  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO MERCURY gives depth to the  mind,  and
forespiritual,  together with all the other good qualities enumerated as re-
sulting   from   the  sextile  and  the  trine  if  Mercury   is   otherwise
well-aspected,  but not in so full a measure, or at any rate the person does
not seem to be able to externalize them as readily,  hence does not meet the
same assured success as given by the good aspects.  He also suffers from the
tendency  to melancholy denoted by the square or opposition,  especially  if
the  aspect  occurs in one of the common signs or in Capricorn,  and  if  in
Gemini it interferes sadly with the dexterity.  Such people tend to drop ev-
erything they take into their hands.  These aspects also give an  embarrass-
ing  timidity and if Mercury is afflicted the undesirable qualities  enumer-
ated as resulting from the square or opposition may be looked for.

   SATURN  SQUARE  OR  OPPOSITION TO MERCURY makes  the  person  subject  to
trouble and delays all through life.   He is thwarted on every hand by slan-
der  and  secret  enemies  and  this  condition in time makes him bitter and


[PAGE 211]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

sarcastic with the additional result that he is shunned by all who can  pos-
sibly  get away from him.   This in time leads him to become a  recluse  who
shuts himself away to brood over his troubles.   Such a person sometimes be-
comes  subject  to melancholia of a most piteous character.   These  aspects
also make the person cunning and untruthful.   They give the same desire  to
study the occult conferred by the good aspects,  but there is the great dif-
ference that while the good aspects of Saturn and Mercury incline one to the
study of occultism from unselfish motives, the bad aspects impel him to fer-
ret out nature's secret for personal power or gain.

   JUPITER CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MERCURY is one of the
finest assets in life, for it gives a cheerful,  optimistic disposition with
the  ability to look upon the bright side of things and keep up the  spirits
in hours of adversity.   The mind is broad,  versatile,  and able to  reason
correctly  and to form a reliable judgment by careful  deliberation.   These
people never give a hasty decision; they require time to think over whatever
is  presented to them,  but once they have reached a conclusion it  will  be
found incontrovertible.   They are successful in law or literature and  much
respected  for  their honesty and sincerity.  These aspects are particularly


[PAGE 212]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

fortunate for people who travel for business or pleasure, for they will reap
both benefit and enjoyment from a migratory mode of life; these aspects make
them "healthy,  wealthy and wise" beyond the average, and loved by everybody
for the vital vibrations they radiate upon whomever they meet.

   JUPITER SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MERCURY gives a vacillating and  wavering
disposition  so that the person cannot make up his mind when more  than  one
course of action is open,  hence people with these aspects often lose  their
opportunities through procrastination and lack of judgment,  and must there-
fore often be classed as failures in life.   They are liable to scandal  and
slander because of treacherous associates.   They should not travel,  for it
will bring them loss and trouble.   They should also be extremely careful in
making  contracts  or  agreements  to do or  deliver  certain  things  at  a
specified time, for they will probably be unable to fulfill the requirements
and thus trouble and loss will result.

   MARS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MERCURY gives a keen,  sharp,  ingenious and re-
sourceful mentality.   It makes the person enthusiastic over any proposition
which  appeals to him and he has also ability to enthuse others and  impress
them with his views;  an indefatigable worker in any cause which arouses his


[PAGE 213]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

sympathies, but he is not visionary, and is interested only in concrete mat-
ters.   These people love argument or debate, and they have an inexhaustible
fund of wit and good humor,  sometimes blended with a vein of sarcasm  which
always  strikes its mark,  yet never viciously nor maliciously.   They  also
have remarkable dexterity and are able to turn their hands to whatever  task
is allotted and do it with a speed,  facility and expedition that is  aston-
ishing,  to say the least.   They cannot do anything slowly or  by  halves,;
whatever they undertake must be done with a rush,  and they put their  whole
energy  into it so that they may accomplish the task and do it  well,  hence
these  aspects give success in life,  in almost any line of  endeavor  these
people may select, but most often in literature or the mechanical arts.

   MARS CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO MERCURY gives the same mental energy, en-
thusiasm  and dexterity as the definately good aspects,  but  whether  these
qualities are used for constructive and good purposes or for destructive and
evil ends depends upon the sign,  house position and other aspects.   If the
configuration  occurs in a sign where either or both planets are strong  and
well-placed,  as Mars in Aries or Capricorn,  or Mercury in Gemini or Virgo,
or  if they are fortified by good aspects from the Sun,  Venus  or  Jupiter,
Mars conjunction or parallel  Mercury  will operate similarly to the sextile


[PAGE 214]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

or trine,  as stated in the foregoing paragraph, which see.  But if Mars and
Mercury are in one of the watery signs (Cancer,  Scorpio or Pisces),  or  if
either or both are afflicted by Saturn,  Uranus or Neptune,  the conjunction
or  parallel of Mars and Mercury will give the same evil tendencies  as  the
square or opposition which are defined in the next paragraph.

   MARS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MERCURY makes people quickwitted,  sharp and
alert,  quick tempered,  impulsive and excitable,  liable to jump at conclu-
sions and act before they think with the inevitable result that they are al-
ways getting themselves or other people into trouble, hence they are danger-
ous associates.  They are born prevaricators and utterly incapable of making
a straight statement.  It is just as natural for them to color or exaggerate
their statements as it is to breathe.  They are vitriolic in their wrath and
their tongues are more poisonous than the bite of a rattlesnake,  hence they
are  either feared or hated by those who are unfortunate enough to be  bound
to them by environment;  all who can, shun them.   They are bullies who  are
bound either to rule or ruin wherever they are,  and they allow no  obstacle
to stand in their way which can be removed either by force or slander.  They
are the acme of selfishness, swagger and  consummate egotism.  The foregoing


[PAGE 215]                                      MERCURY THE PLANET OF REASON

tendencies may of course be modified by other aspects,  but if they are not,
such people are a menace to society.  If either Mars or Mercury is placed in
the  Sixth or Twelfth House or in any other position so that the bad  aspect
acts upon the health, there is a liability to nervous prostration, brain fe-
ver or insanity.

   URANUS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MERCURY gives an original, independent and ec-
centric mind impatient of the fetters of fashion,  tradition and convention.
Such a person is strenuous in his efforts to hew a path for himself in  com-
plete liberty.   Therefore this is the hall-mark of the pioneers in  thought
and invention,  the sign of genius.  Their ideas and ideals are  exceedingly
lofty,  progressive and inspiring, in fact too much so in the opinion of the
average man or woman who looks upon their actions as vagaries,  the  outcome
of a diseased mind.   Nevertheless they have plenty of friends on account of
their kindly and sympathetic nature.   These aspects are good for a literary
or scientific pursuit,  also for invention,  particularly along lines  which
have to do with air or electricity.

   URANUS  CONJUNCTION  OR PARALLEL MERCURY.  If Mercury  is  otherwise  af-
flicted  the  conjunction and parallel are to be judged as bad  aspects  and
read accordingly, but if Mercury is otherwise  well  placed and aspected the


[PAGE 216]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

delineation given for the sextile and trine will apply.

   URANUS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MERCURY is the hall-mark of the true crank
or  anarchist  who has extreme ideas in regard to tearing  down  the  social
structure and making reforms.  People with these configurations are given to
ranting  and raving in public and their language is usually as cruel as  the
measures they advocate.   Whatever ability they possess is usually turned to
erratic  purposes and they are often forced to make sudden changes  on  that
account.

   NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL,  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MERCURY gives a mind
peculiarly adapted to the occult art, particularly if the conjunction occurs
in  the Third or Ninth House or the trines are from the watery signs  Cancer
and Pisces.  Such people usually succeed in occult science and often develop
a supernormal faculty.  They are particularly good as magnetic healers.

   NEPTUNE  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MERCURY gives a chaotic mind,  liability
to  lack  of memory,  indolence and a disposition to dream  the  time  away.
There  is  a restless desire for fame and an inability to fit  in  anywhere.
Such people are liable to fraud, deception and slander,  also to commit sui-
cide.


[PAGE 217]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

                                 CHAPTER XI

                     THE MOON, THE PLANET OF FECUNDATION

   From the Bible we learn that Jehovah made man in His image.   We are also
told that ANGELS visited Sarah and proclaimed the birth of Isaac.  They also
foretold  the  birth  of Samson and Samuel and  the  ANGEL  (not  archangel)
Gabriel  came  to Mary of Bethlehem to announce the coming birth  of  Jesus.
According to occult science Jehovah and His angels are the guardians of  the
seed atoms,  the basic factors in fertilization.   The activities of the an-
gels  are directed to the maintenance of plant,  animal and human life  upon
earth.   To this end their forces are focused by the wandering Moon  through
the twelve signs of the zodiac;  they impinge upon the foetus in a  creative
manner during the period of gestation from the time of conception to birth.

   Thus as the Moon measures the tides of the earth so also does she measure
the  soul's  passage from the shores of eternity through the waters  of  the
womb to the world of time.  According to astrology Cancer is the home of the
Moon.   The ancient Egyptians pictured this sign as a scarab or beetle which
was their emblem of the soul and they called Cancer THE SPHERE OF THE  SOUL,
for it is said that through this moist watery sign  fertilized  by the lunar


[PAGE 218]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

ray the seed atoms are projected into the womb of the prospective parent who
is  thus prepared for the period of gestation;  and occult science  adds  to
this that the seed atoms of the animal kingdom,  which is still mindless and
therefore not amenable to lunar influences in that direction,  are projected
through  the watery martial sign SCORPIO while the seed atoms of  the  inert
plants our poured in through the Jupiterian sign Pisces just before the  Sun
enters  Aries  at the vernal equinox to awaken the plant seeds  sleeping  in
Mother Earth,  which have been fertilized by Pisces.   Thus the human family
has the longest period of gestation,  the animal a somewhat shorter one  and
the plant the shortest of all.

   The Moon also measures the period of postnatal growth so that the  period
of  CHILDHOOD,  measured by the change of teeth is complete at  about  seven
years of age when the Moon is SQUARE to her place at birth.   The period  of
PUBERTY is ushered in at about fourteen years of age when the Moon is in OP-
POSITION  to her place at birth and is marked by the change of voice in  the
boy and the commencement of the menses in the girl.   At twenty-one years of
age the Moon by progression has traveled three quarters of the circle of the
horoscope  from its place at birth.  This finishes the period of  incubation
and the human being is considered to be full-grown,  capable of exercising a
franchise and taking care of his own affairs.  Thus the distance traveled by
the New Moon during the prenatal period of gestation  in  the  mother's womb


[PAGE 219]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

and the distance traveled by the progressed Moon during the twenty-one years
of post-natal development in the womb of Mother Nature correspond exactly.

   The Moon,  like Mercury, has no basic nature of its own but serves to fo-
cus  the qualities of the signs and other planets upon the human mind.   She
governs the tidal air in the lungs and the colorless lymph in the body, also
the  digestive  activity  and the sympathetic  nervous  system  which  auto-
matically takes care of the process of digestion.  She also governs the cer-
ebellum,  the mammae,  the feminine functions and parturition as already ex-
plained.

   People  who are strongly under the influence of the lunar rays are of  an
easy-going,  dreamy,  indolent nature,  adepts as architects of air  castles
which  never materialize or assume concrete shape.   They are very  sociable
and  generally easy to get along with.   They succeed best as cooks,  house-
keepers  or in some domestic occupation or in one which has to do  with  li-
quids or a seafaring life.

   The Moon being female indicates the marriage partner for a man so that in
a  man's  horoscope  affliction of the Moon would not be  so  apt  to  cause
trouble  in  health as in married life and the horoscopes of the  two  sexes
should  therefore be read differently with respect to the Sun and Moon.   If
Saturn  afflicts the Moon in a woman's horoscope it will affect her  health,
but in the same respect to the Sun and Moon.  If Saturn afflicts the Moon in
a woman's horoscope it will affect her health, but the same aspect occurring
in a man's horoscope will cause him trouble in married life.   If the Sun is
afflicted in a man's horoscope it will  affect  his  health but in a woman's


[PAGE 220]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

horoscope it would indicate trouble with her husband.  At the same time how-
ever it should not be forgotten that both the Sun and Moon are vital factors
in  the  health of both sexes but one sex is more affected by the  Sun,  the
other by the Moon.

   The Moon is the great time-marker of the universe.  Without her our lives
would  be  barren of events for although the Sun and the  planets  by  their
travel through the signs and houses indicate the years when certain  tenden-
cies shown in the horoscope may culminate in action,  it invariably requires
an  aspect  of  the  Moon to fertilize the aspect and  make  it  bloom  into
physical manifestation.  The Sun and the planets may therefore be likened to
the  hour-hand on the clock of destiny which shows the YEAR when each  phase
of  our destiny which shows the YEAR when each phase of our destiny is  ripe
for  the harvest and the Moon may be likened to the minute-hand which  shows
the MONTH when the influences are due to culminate into action.  In order to
become fully conversant with the influences of the Moon we would advise stu-
dents to read carefully the article on eclipses and new moon in our  Simpli-
fied Scientific Astrology.

                        THE MOON IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

    THE MOON IN THE FIRST HOUSE.  When the Moon is rising in the First House
at  birth and particularly in common or cardinal sign she gives  the  person
then born a very restless nature; he is constantly endeavoring to change his


[PAGE 221]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

position environment and occupation, is ensouled by an insatiable wanderlust
and always ready to roam.   When the Moon is rising in a fixed sign there is
a little more stability to the nature but even then the person will probably
spend at least part of his time in a roving existence.  People with the Moon
in the First House are usually sensitives, especially if the Moon is in  the
psychic signs Cancer or Pisces.   They have a very vivid imagination and are
quite  intuitive.   This position of the Moon has a powerful influence  upon
health especially in a woman's horoscope and the aspects which the Moon  re-
ceives  determine the strength of the constitution.   It is also a  sign  of
success in such occupations as bring the person in close touch with the pub-
lic.

    THE MOON IN THE SECOND HOUSE signifies fluctuating finances unless  for-
tified by good aspects from Jupiter,  the planet of opulence,  or Venus  the
planet of attraction.   Good aspects from the Sun make matters more  settled
in that respect.

    THE MOON IN THE THIRD HOUSE makes the mind extremely fertile in imagina-
tion with a strong liking for mental occupations,  especially such as do not
require continuity but are subject to constant change,  like editing and re-
porting  on  newspapers  where one must be on the alert for  news  and  roam
hither and thither for the purpose of gathering it.  These  people  love the


[PAGE 222]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

lime-light  of publicity and if the Moon is strengthened by good aspects  to
Mercury they may reach a position of prominence.

    THE MOON IN THE FOURTH HOUSE well-aspected indicates fortunate home con-
ditions, especially toward the close of life but if the Moon is afflicted we
may judge the reverse.   This position also gives a tendency toward  psychic
experiences  especially if the Moon is in its own sign Cancer or in  Pisces,
another watery sign.   It also shows many changes of residence which will be
fortunate or otherwise according to other aspects of the Moon.

    THE MOON IN THE FIFTH HOUSE in cardinal or common signs indicates a per-
son of very changeable afflictions, fond of pleasure and gambling.   It is a
sign of a fruitful marriage particularly when in Scorpio.   Even in a barren
sign  like Leo the Moon will give children when she is placed in  the  Fifth
House.  This question, however, should always be judged from both horoscopes
of the prospective parents,  for should one be entirely barren,  the Moon in
the  Fifth House in Leo or Virgo in the other horoscope,  would not be  suf-
ficient help to mend the matter.

    THE MOON IN THE SIXTH HOUSE is a poor position particularly in a woman's
horoscope and any person with the Moon in that position will be  better in a


[PAGE 223]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

subordinate position employed by someone else than in a business venture  of
his  own.   Should he be placed in the position of employer he will find  it
difficult to keep servants or employees.  They will change constantly.

    THE MOON IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE if well-aspected is fortunate for  success
in marriage,  partnership and all dealings with the public for it makes  the
person popular.   But if seriously afflicted it indicates a fickle,  change-
able marriage partner,  loss through litigation, partnership and the general
public which will then hold the person in disfavor.

    THE MOON IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE gives gain by marriage and legacy if it  is
well-aspected and it also increases the number of children though there is a
change that some of them may die.   But if the Moon is afflicted the  finan-
cial  fortunes will change for the worse after marriage and if  legacies  do
come they will bring lawsuits with them whereby the person will lose.

    THE MOON IN THE NINTH HOUSE when well-aspected gives a clean clear  mind
of a serious, religious, legal or philosophy turn according to the nature of
the  aspect.   The person will travel far with both pleasure and profit  for
himself  and sometime he will come into the lime-light of  publicity.   This
position also gives a tendency to dreams and visions especially if  the Moon


[PAGE 224]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

is aspected by Neptune.  If the Moon is afflicted the person will be too im-
pulsive  and jump to conclusions which are to his detriment.   If he  under-
takes  to  travel he is liable to meet much trouble in consequence.   He  is
also  apt to make an ill-considered change in religion and be  subjected  to
much censure on that account.

    THE  MOON IN THE TENTH HOUSE is a sign of good fortune,  popularity  and
prosperity  if well-aspected.   It brings the person prominently before  the
public  and ensures favor especially from women,  also the  accumulation  or
property.   It makes the mind deep and diplomatic,  curious and inquisitive.
When  the Moon is afflicted the person is liable to incur hostility  on  the
part of the public and reversals of fortune.   Sometimes he becomes involved
in public scandal and subject to censure.

    THE MOON IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE if well-aspected gives many friends espe-
cially among women, but if she is afflicted those who come to the person un-
der  the guise of friendship do so in the hope that he may be of benefit  to
them.

    THE  MOON  IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE if well-aspected gives success  in  such
work  as  is performed in seclusion away from the public gaze,  in  prisons,
hospitals or charitable institutions.  There is also a  liability  to become


[PAGE 225]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

involved  in clandestine love-affairs but if the Moon is  well-aspected  the
person will be able to keep this a secret.   If the Moon is afflicted  there
is a danger of secret enemies, trouble and persecution.

                        THE MOON IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

    THE  MOON IN ARIES gives a very independent type of mind which  aims  to
hew  out its own path in life whether right or wrong and is extremely  quick
to resent any interference from others.  The person is ambitious and aggres-
sive  but  lacks forethought,  so that he is liable to  meet  with  numerous
setbacks.   However, this position gives a dauntless courage and such people
are  not easily defeated.   When they have failed in one direction they  im-
mediately try another venture and in the end their very persistence  usually
brings  them into prominence in their line and gives them ultimate  success,
unless the Moon is afflicted;  they they are prone to take up one occupation
after another without giving themselves time to try honestly to make a  suc-
cess of any one.

    THE MOON IN TAURUS.   This is the Moon's exaltation sign and her  effect
is  therefore  very  powerful for good if she is free  from  affliction  and
well-aspected.  Then the fixed nature of Taurus tones down the changeability
of the Moon  which  also  blends  with  the  Venus  ray.  Hence it makes the


[PAGE 226]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

disposition  gentle,  self-reliant and determined.   It gives  perseverance,
forethought and kindness,  therefore the person attracts all the good things
of life,  health and wealth,  friends and family,  houses and lands with the
ability  to  enjoy all these things for it makes him fond of  pleasure,  so-
ciable and hospitable,  a lover of art and music and all other things  which
make for the enjoyment of life.

    THE MOON IN GEMINI gives a wide-awake intellect,  fond of literature and
science,  resourceful and able to cope with emergencies, broad,  liberal and
alert  for  progressive ideas which are taken up with avidity.   Hence  such
people are much attracted to literary occupations, particularly in the news-
paper  field where they may flit from one subject to another as required  by
their extremely restless mind.   This position also gives an inordinate love
of traveling,  and desire for positions where one meets many people.   Hence
it favors such occupations as those of traveling salesmen,  canvassers,  and
the like.

    THE MOON IN CANCER gives a disposition which is kind,  sociable and sym-
pathetic,  but indolent and averse to effort whether physical, moral or men-
tal.   These people love to drift with the tide and only  bestir  themselves
when under the whiplash of necessity.  They are  often  sensitive  to physic


[PAGE 227]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

conditions,  especially if the Moon is aspected by Neptune or Uranus and the
nature of the aspect determines whether the influence is favorable or  unfa-
vorable.  This position also gives a love of home and the comforts to be ob-
tained there.   It promotes the digestion and consequently the health if the
Moon  is well-aspected.   If afflicted it has a tendency to  give  digestive
troubles.

   THE  MOON IN LEO has an illuminating influence on the mind.   It gives  a
strong,  self-reliant and aggressive disposition with ability for  organiza-
tion;  therefore  people with the Moon in this position  usually  attain  to
leadership in their immediate circle.   They are honorable in financial  and
social matters, fair and magnanimous in their dealings with others, and very
popular with other people.

   THE MOON IN VIRGO increases the mental qualities if she is well-aspected;
she  gives a retentive memory,  a love of study along scientific  or  occult
lines and an ambition to excel.   Chemistry is the favorite of these  people
among the sciences and they excel as dietitians.   They are rather  reserved
and of quiet demeanor,  disliking flattery or ostentation.   Unless they de-
vote themselves to dietetics they are more successful as the servants or em-
ployees of others than in business for themselves.


[PAGE 228]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

   THE MOON IN LIBRA is a fortunate position for the acquisition of  friends
and public popularity for it makes the person kind,  sympathetic and  agree-
able,  optimistic and fond of social pleasures.   This position  also  gives
good  reasoning powers and the ability to form a correct judgment,  love  of
art and music,  sometimes considerable ability as a performer if assisted by
other aspects.

   THE MOON IN SCORPIO gives a courageous independent and energetic disposi-
tion.   The person who has this configuration will not tolerate interference
with his plans or submit to imposition.  He is often very abrupt in his man-
ners and blunt in speech,  quick-tempered and not to be coerced by  threats,
but singularly amenable to kindness.   He has a strong and stubborn will and
determination to carry out whatever he undertakes.  This position also gives
a  considerable attraction toward the occult sciences but if  afflicted  may
lead to excess gratification of the senses,  trouble with women or difficul-
ties in parturition.

   THE MOON IN SAGITTARIUS gives an alert and active personality,  a love of
walking, riding or any other form of physical exercise, a roving of disposi-
tion and love of travel in foreign countries,  a fondness of animals,  espe-
cially  horses  and dogs and an inclination for the study of  religion,  law
philosophy or the science of occultism.  These people are  very  optimistic,


[PAGE 229]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

good  humored,  jovial,  and ideal companions unless the Moon is  afflicted,
then   her   position  in  Sagittarius  is  conducive   to   indolence   and
self-indulgence.

   THE  MOON IN CAPRICORN,  if well-aspected,  gives abundance of help  from
people who are higher in the social scale so that whatever success there may
be will come through others, the person being too timid to push himself for-
ward, besides being of a melancholy turn of mind which makes him exceedingly
sensitive to real or fancied slights.   If the Moon is afflicted it gives  a
liability to slander whether that is merited or not.  This position also has
a detrimental effect upon the digestion.  People with Moon in this  position
often have an insane fear of coming to want and therefore they become avari-
cious and miserly,  denying themselves all comforts at the present time that
they may have something for a rainy day.   They have very little feeling for
themselves and none at all for others.

   THE  MOON  IN  AQUARIUS if well-aspected gives the person  a  very  vivid
imagination and the power of calling images up before the mind's eye in such
a manner that they seem almost tangible; besides these people are not depen-
dent upon the faculty of reason, for their  intuition  is  also  exceedingly


[PAGE 230]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

well-developed.  In disposition they are sociable, kindly and courteous with
the result that they attract many friends and are very popular in their  en-
vironment,  and they are helped by their friends according to the aspects of
the  Moon.   On the other hand if the Moon is afflicted this position  shows
one of an exceedingly erratic mind.

   THE MOON IN PISCES gives a receptive mind and a fertile imagination  with
a disposition to indolence and self-pity, vacillation and faint-heartedness,
makes one fond of creaming rather than acting, therefore sorrow, trouble and
self-undoing beset the path in life.   This position not infrequently  leads
to mediumship,  especially if Neptune is in adverse aspect, for these people
are  peculiarly sensitive to the flattery of spirit-controls and  love  any-
thing that will stir their emotions.   They are also very wordy in their ex-
pressions.   If a good aspect from Venus and Mercury enables them to take up
music they play with extraordinary inspiration and feeling.   If the Moon is
afflicted  in Pisces love-affairs are apt to bring the person into  trouble.
If Pisces is in the Twelfth House and the Moon there at birth this will give
a  liability on the part of the parents to drink and thus to  neglect  their
children who may then become the wards of charitable institutions until they
reach maturity.


[PAGE 231]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

                    ASPECTS OF THE MOON TO OTHER PLANETS

   THE SUN PARALLEL TO OR CONJUNCTION WITH THE MOON.  No matter in what sign
or house the conjunction of the Lights occurs the person will be so strongly
marked  with the characteristics that sign that,  lacking knowledge  of  his
true  ascendant,  even the most competent astrologer is likely to be  misled
and judge him to be born with the sign rising in which the conjunction  took
place,  and whatever matters are ruled by the house in which the conjunction
occurs will play a very important part in the life.   In the First he is  an
out and out egotist with very little love for others save in so far as  they
serve his ends,  in the Seventh his world pivots on the mate,  in the  Tenth
House  or sign he will sacrifice all other considerations to rise in  public
life;  in the Twelfth House or sign the conjunction will give a strong  ten-
dency to intemperance which will bring trouble in the life; in the Third and
Ninth Houses it will brighten the mind and induce travel from which he  will
benefit; in the Second House it will bring wealth, especially if in good as-
pect  with Jupiter.   If the conjunction of the Sun and Moon is closer  than
three degrees if has a tendency to deplete the vitality and if it is also  a
solar eclipse and the child survives,  this will be particularly  noticeable
all through life.  People  who  have  such  close  conjunctions  or eclipses


[PAGE 232]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

become listless, dispirited and out of sorts every time there is a new Moon.
The conjunction or eclipse does not seem to interfere with the good  effects
in other department of life.

   THE  SUN SEXTILE OR TRINE TO THE MOON.   The good aspects of the Sun  and
Moon make for general success in life, health, fair financial fortunes, good
home conditions with faithful friends and esteem in the community;  they fa-
vor  a  rise in life because of the person's innate  ability,  which  either
gains  for him the recognition of people in a position to help him rise,  or
impels him to carve his own way.

   THE SUN SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON makes the person vacillating and
unsettled in disposition,  changeable and unable to pursue a settled  course
in life, rash to plunge into untried ventures but lacking the persistence or
continuity  of  purpose to carry anything to a successful  conclusion.   For
that reason such people become failures in life;  their dealings with  women
and  people higher in the social scale such as employers,  the  authorities,
judges,  etc.,  are especially unsuccessful; they always have difficulty  in
obtaining  proper employment and in keeping their positions  when  obtained,
for  they  are hyper-sensitive and ready to take offense,  with  or  without
provocation.  These  configurations  also  affect  the  health;  the body is


[PAGE 233]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

liable  to  colds and recuperation is slow when sickness has  overtaken  the
person.

   VENUS PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION, SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO THE MOON.  The Moon is
significator  of marriage for a man and therefore the good  aspects  between
Venus, the planet of love, and the Moon are good indications of a happy mar-
riage  when  they occur in a man's horoscope.   But in a  woman's  horoscope
these aspects operate upon the health,  for the Moon is the plant of  fecun-
dity  and  has rule over the female functions in particular,  which  are  so
large a factor in the woman's health, and this is much strengthened by them.
These aspects give oratorical ability with a fruitful imagination, a love of
pleasure, music and art.  They give an engaging personality, very attractive
to the opposite sex because kindly,  affectionate and sympathetic,  and they
tend to general success in life;  though the finances may be fluctuating the
person usually has sufficient for the day and the way.

   VENUS  SQUARE  OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON is an indication of  trouble  in
marriage for a man, because the wife described by an afflicted Venus will be
slovenly and of dissolute habits which will destroy domestic happiness.   In
a  woman's horoscope it indicates a disturbance of the female functions  and
also gives a tendency to digestive troubles and poor circulation when in the


[PAGE 234]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

horoscope of either sex.  These aspects also give a liability to slander and
public  scandal as the person so afflicted is fickle and inconstant  in  his
affections,  of a sensual nature which loves to flit from flower  to  flower
regardless of the sorrows caused by playing with the heart of others.

   MERCURY PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO THE MOON gives a re-
ceptive  mind and a retentive memory, two very rare qualities and  therefore
these  aspects,  particularly the sextile and trine are good indications  of
success in life,  especially in one of the mercurial occupations,  literary,
clerical  or traveling.   People with these configurations are usually  very
verbose,  particularly if the conjunction or trine occurs in airy signs or a
sign of voice, for then the power of expression reaches a superlative degree
and such people become able linguists and elocutionists; but unless there is
some steadying influence people with aspects of Mercury and the Moon are not
reliable  because of their tendency to change their minds repeatedly in  the
most unexpected manner.   They are inclined to look upon the bright side  of
life and are fond of pleasure, particularly travel.

   MERCURY SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON gives a poor memory and lack  of
mental stability with a tendency to indecision and worry, liability to brain
storms and hysterics.  These characteristics make the person unpopular and


[PAGE 235]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

as the saying is "unlucky."

   SATURN  SEXTILE  OR  TRINE TO THE MOON imparts  all  the  best  saturnine
qualities to the mind and makes the person self-reliant, serious,  sober and
systematic,  careful  and thrifty in business affairs and gives  success  in
life through tactful and diplomatic dealings with others.   Such people  are
eminently  responsible and trust worthy in all matters of honor and  justice
and gain great esteem in the community on that account.   Their patience and
persistence are inexhaustible.

   SATURN  PARALLEL  TO  OR CONJUNCTION WITH THE MOON is not  always  to  be
classed as a bad aspect so far as the mental qualities go for in any case it
depends  the mind and gives greater power of concentration.   If  Saturn  is
strong  by  sign,   in  Libra  or  Capricorn,  and  the  Moon  is  otherwise
well-aspected,  this position will also impart the virtues of Saturn  though
under  all conditions it makes the mind gloomy and the person is subject  to
periodical spells of melancholy;  but if Saturn is weak by sign,  especially
if  he is in Aries and if the Moon is otherwise afflicted then his  conjunc-
tion is to be judged and read the same as the square or opposition.

   The effect of the conjunction also depends upon the department of life we
are considering:  for instance, as already said, the conjunction of the Moon


[PAGE 236]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

and Saturn is good for concentration of the mind, but bad for the digestion,
particularly  in a woman's horoscope;  it has also the tendency to  obstruct
the menses with all that that implies, and in a man's horoscope it indicates
the death of the marriage partner.  Similar distinctions should be made when
reading the conjunctions of the other so-called malefics.

   SATURN SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON is one of the signatures of  sor-
row in life for it makes the mind melancholy and full of worries so that the
person  is  constantly  carrying an atmosphere of gloom  with  him,  and  as
thoughts  are  things this attitude of mind brings about delays  and  disap-
pointments in every department of life.  Such a person will experience  dif-
ficulties from people and things signified by Saturn, probably parents,  and
if he has money he may lose it and have difficult in getting more;  thus  he
may be in poverty all his life.   He will make more enemies than friends and
become subject to slander and scandal, but the disfavor he meets is undoubt-
edly merited for these aspects make the mind bitter and selfish; such people
are unscrupulous,  avaricious and entirely unfeeling with respect to others,
hence  they  are under the whiplash of Saturn that the sorrow  and  troubles
which they themselves are constantly feeling may make them more mellow.   If
the aspect is six, five or even four  degrees from being exact and if Saturn


[PAGE 237]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

is  in the exaltation sign Libra these aspects are not quite so evil in  the
latter  part of life.   They may then imply that the person has learned  his
lesson  and  as a consequence he may find himself in  easier  circumstances.
The adverse aspects of Saturn to the Moon are very bad for the health,  par-
ticularly in a woman's horoscope.   There they indicate obstructions of  the
female functions.  In the man's horoscope they either deny marriage or indi-
cate  the  death of the marriage partner and their general tendency  to  ob-
struct  everything  connected  with the houses and signs  wherein  they  are
placed in the horoscope.

   JUPITER PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO THE MOON gives an op-
timistic,  noble and generous disposition.  The open-hearted honesty,  fair-
ness  and friendliness of such people make them universally popular.   These
aspects strengthen both the reasoning faculties and constitution;  they give
a strong mind in a strong body and hence a powerful personal magnetism which
may be used to great advantage in healing the sick.   They have lofty ideals
and  a  fruitful imagination with the power of acquiring wealth  which  will
grow greater if used in philanthropic enterprises of which these people  are
prone to dream.  These are some of the  best  aspects  in the gamut and make


[PAGE 238]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

for general success in life both physically and spiritually.

   JUPITER SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON impairs the reasoning  faculties
and brings the person trouble through litigation,  lack of fore-thought  and
indecision or dishonesty.   People with these aspects are too fond of osten-
tation and display,  extravagant beyond their means and resources,  prone to
take desperate chances in gambling or speculation to rehabilitate their for-
tunes and doomed to loss, slander and sometimes bankruptcy on that account.

   These aspects are also bad for health, in a woman's horoscope especially,
indicating digestive and liver problems.

   MARS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO THE MOON gives a wonderful vitality and a strong
physique  so  that the person is able to overcome almost any  tendencies  to
ill-health,  all of which are overruled by these aspects.   The power of en-
durance  is increased to a maximum and the person can survive  hardships  to
which people ordinarily succumb.   They give a resolute,  courageous,  ener-
getic  and ambitious mind of a resourceful and eminently constructive  turn'
and  they make the person quick but not precipitate in his decisions.   Thus
he  gains the confidence and esteem of others and earns  considerable  money
but the nature is extremely free and generous so that money does not stay by


[PAGE 239]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

these people.  They spend it almost as fast as they get it.

   MARS  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO THE MOON may be either good or  bad  ac-
cording to the sex of the person and the department of life we are consider-
ing.   It strengthens the health and the vitality, particularly in the horo-
scope  of  a woman.   In the horoscope of a man it would indicate  a  robust
marriage partner of a domineering nature.  With respect to the mind it would
make the person very impulsive,  particularly if placed in one of the common
signs or in the Third or Ninth Houses.  It also gives a very bad temper  but
not so bad as the square or opposition.  If Mars is in conjunction or paral-
lel to the Moon in Scorpio there is an abnormal sexual desire which will not
be  denied particularly if Venus is there also.   It makes the  nature  very
restless  and  unsettled for it is like mixing fire and  water.   In  watery
signs it inclines to drink.

   MARS  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON gives a very quick temper  with  a
tendency to hasty or impulsive expression and acts that may cause the person
a  great deal of sorrow and trouble.   These people resent rules or  regula-
tions or any other measures that tend to curb their desires or the  gratifi-
cation  of  their  appetites  in  whatever  direction,  but  if  they are in


[PAGE 240]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

authority  they  are  very domineering and exacting  in  their  demands  for
instant obedience upon the part of others, nor do they hesitate to use what-
ever physical force may be necessary to compel obedience if they think  they
can do so without great danger to themselves.  Sometimes they will even take
desperate  changes to satisfy their spite and having an improperly  balanced
mind they are foolhardy in their venturesomeness so that upon occasion  they
will attempt to do things which no one with a sane mind would try.   On  ac-
count of the foregoing consciousness such people make many enemies and cause
a great deal of suffering to others, particularly among members of their im-
mediate  family who cannot very well get away from them.   If these  aspects
occur in watery signs, particularly with Mars of the Moon in Pisces the per-
son  is  also an inveterate drunkard.  From that standpoint of  health  they
give a tendency to fever and accidents,  trouble with the generative  organs
and operations which are usually unnecessary.   These people are exceedingly
prodigal with their money and are habitual prevaricators.

   URANUS SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO THE MOON gives great originality and indepen-
dence to the mind,  which is quick, intuitive and very vivid in its imagina-
tion;  hence the person has inventive ability and is attracted to the occult
arts  and  endowed  with  hypnotic  or magnetic powers, also the intuitional


[PAGE 241]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

ability  to study and practise astrology.   If the life is devoted to  elec-
tricity as a vocation the person will make a success of it.   These  aspects
also give a peculiar fascination for the opposite sex and are likely to lead
to a clandestine love affair or an unconventional union.

   URANUS CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO THE MOON gives similar mental and  psy-
chic tendencies and also the same liability to irregular love-affairs as the
good  aspects  but  these  tendencies are  not  so  pronounced.   A  secrete
love-affair generated under the conjunction of Uranus and the Moon may  have
directly  disastrous  results similar to those mentioned under the  bad  as-
pects.  If the conjunction occurs in Cancer it tends to nervous indigestion;
in Leo it inclines to palpitations of the heart,  interferes with the rhythm
of the heart-beat and gives a spasmodic action which will probably prove fa-
tal when it has run its course.  In Scorpio,  it inclines to perverted prac-
tices,  in  Sagittarius  the reflex action would be felt in  the  lungs  and
similarly with the other signs.

   URANUS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON  makes  the  person  erratic  and
touchy to a degree, a walking powder  magazine  ready  to explode at any mo-
ment, overbearing, conceited, intolerant, and shunned by  all who can possi-


[PAGE 242]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

bly get out of his way. If such people are employers  nobody  can  work  for
them and if they are employees nobody will have them. They never remain very
long in any place, but are either discharged or give up  their  position  on
the slightest provocation.  People  with  these aspects are attracted to the 
occult arts but they never make a success at them because of  their  erratic
mentality.   Like the other aspects of Uranus and the Moon the square or op-
position  also indicates a clandestine attachment either on the part of  the
person  or the marriage partner.   If  it occurs in the Seventh House  of  a
man's horoscope it proves the wife untrue so that public scandal and divorce
will eventually ensue.   The bad aspects of the Sun and Uranus give  similar
indications in the horoscope of a woman.

   NEPTUNE  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO THE MOON increases the faculty of  imagina-
tion to a superlative degree,  especially if either of the planets is in the
Ninth  House.   Then it favors prophetic dreams and visions which bring  the
person  in contact with the invisible worlds.   It indicates ability in  the
occult  arts and success in their practice for it makes the  nature  exceed-
ingly  inspirational and it also gives a kind and  sympathetic  disposition.
The  spiritual  qualities mentioned may not be apparent even to  the  person
himself but then they  are  latent  and  capable of development.  It is also


[PAGE 243]                                   THE MOON, PLANET OF FECUNDATION

safe to say that at some time or other during the life people with these as-
pects  will  come in contact with and be very much attracted to  the  occult
whether the qualities of the soul are subsequently developed or not.

   NEPTUNE  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL MOON indicates the same  strong  psychic
features as the good aspects,  particularly if Neptune is placed in the psy-
chic signs Cancer or Pisces.   Those who were born with the good  configura-
tions  of Neptune during the fourteen years when it was in the  airy  scien-
tific  sign  Gemini  are now conquering the air  and  perfecting  scientific
inventions  which will make us marvel,  but the children who have been  born
under  favorable configurations during the fourteen years Neptune  has  been
going through the psychic sign Cancer are now growing up around us as a band
of  mystics  and when they have reached mature years they will  astonish  us
with  their spiritual insight and power.  Among other things they  will  de-
velop the soul of music.

   NEPTUNE  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO THE MOON is also an indication  of  soul
qualities  similar to those of the good aspects,  but under the former  con-
figurations the person will be of a negative nature and is apt to become the
prey of spirit-controls and subjected to mediumship, therefore he should not
attend seances.


[PAGE 244]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                 CHAPTER XII

                        SATURN, THE PLANET OF SORROW

                            KEYNOTE:  OBSTRUCTION

   A fruitful method of acquiring knowledge is by comparison of similars and
contrasts  of opposites;  thus lights and sidelights are brought out,  which
otherwise may escape attention.

   Applying this method to the Sun and Saturn,  we remember that the keyword
of  the Sun is "Life,"  and at the vernal equinox when the Sun is in  Aries,
the sign of its exaltation,  we may readily note the powerful effect of  the
crestwave  of vital fluid then poured  over the earth.   Nature  is  vibrant
with  life,  which races through the forms of all kingdoms and  endues  them
with such abundance of vitality that they are compelled to generate in order
to take care of the overflow.  Life manifests as motion;  but the keynote of
Saturn is Obstruction,  therefore that is the planet of decrepitude and  de-
cay, and consequently when the Sun is in Libra, the sign of Saturn's exalta-
tion,  at the fall equinox,  Nature is tired and ready for its wintry sleep.
The  human frame also is energized by the solar life contained in our  food,
which enters our system through the head and throat, governed by the exalta-
tion signs of the Builders, the Sun and Moon, and is eliminated  by  the Sun


[PAGE 245]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

and Moon,  and is eliminated by the activity of the liver and kidneys  ruled
by Saturn and his exaltation sign, Libra.

   In youth,  when the Sun forces surge through the frame,  assimilation and
excretion balance,  but as time goes on, "Chronos" or Saturn accumulates ob-
structions  in  the organs of excretion,  and elimination is  gradually  re-
stricted,  the avenues of life are dammed up, and decrepitude and decay turn
the scales of life (Libra) towards the realm of death.

   Similarly  in other departments of life; where the Sun makes  the  social
favorite,  by  imbuing him with optimism and a bright  sunny  smile,  Saturn
makes recluses and sours existence with frowns and pessimism;  where the Sun
furthers  our worldly affairs and makes things run smoothly,  Saturn  causes
provoking  delays of the most inexplicable nature;  all the world  seems  to
conspire to frustrate our plans.

   In the Kingdom of God all things are balanced to produce the highest  ul-
timate  good to all,  and so the influence of Saturn is used to  offset  the
exuberant life of Mars.   The intrinsic nature of Saturn is OBSTRUCTION;  he
is slow and persistent as Mars is impulsive and quick to change; he takes no
chances,  but looks before he leaps, and his cold, calculating reason misses
no flaws in any scheme.

   In the horoscope of a young soul Mars is dominant and the man grows along
physical lines much as animals do under the law of the survival of the  fit-
test, but gradually the  thumbscrews  of  Saturn  are  put  on,  squares and


[PAGE 246]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

oppositions bring sorrow and suffering;  Saturn is placed above Mars in  the
horoscope, to frustrate and check him, till it seems as if every effort were
futile because of the Saturnian obstruction.

   Elijah  could not hear the voice of guidance in the fire,  the storm  nor
the  earthquake,  but  when the tumult was over he heard  "the  still  small
voice"  to cheer him;  and likewise with us, while we yield to the unchecked
Mars  impulses  our lives are too turbulent to admit of communion  with  the
Higher Self,  but when the sorrows of Saturn have chastened the unruly  Mars
spirit, when the night seems darkest, as in Elijah's cave, then we also hear
the voice that shall speak peace after the storm.

   The leash of Saturn is not pleasant;  we sometimes chafe,  fret and  fume
while being thus held in leash,  but meanwhile we ripen and are more fitted,
when the obstruction is removed,  to have or use that which Saturn  delayed,
for  as we develop physical muscle by overcoming physical obstacles,  so  we
cultivate  soul  power by the resistance spiritually engendered  by  Saturn.
The teaching which he gives may be summed up in the motto:  "Patient persis-
tence in well doing."

   Most of us when considering Saturn in the horoscope are inclined to  look
upon him as evil on account of the affliction be brings,  but that is only a
one-sided view, for there is nothing evil in God's Kingdom.  What appears so
is merely good in the making.  When we remember  that  the  destiny shown by


[PAGE 247]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

our  horoscope is of our own making in past existences then we shall  under-
stand that Saturn only marks the weak spots in our horoscope,  where we  are
vulnerable and liable to go wrong.   When the weak points have been  brought
out through temptation,  AND WE HAVE YIELDED,  the punishment follows  auto-
matically as a natural and logical sequence, for every wrong acts carries in
itself  the  seed of punishment which brings home to our  consciousness  the
mistakes  we  have made.   We must hold clearly before our mind's  eye  that
through  the  planets incline to a certain life of action  we,  as  evolving
Egos,  are  supposed to discriminate between good and evil and  choose  only
that which is good.   If we fail in this respect and YIELD to the temptation
the  transgression  merits a just recompense under the laws  of  nature  and
these  are the things signified by Saturn.   WE ARE NOT PUNISHED BECAUSE  WE
ARE TEMPTED BUT WE ARE PUNISHED BECAUSE WE YIELDED.   Supposing for instance
that Saturn is in Cancer,  then it is plain that in the past we have yielded
to  an inordinate desire for food, that in consequence our digestive  organs
have  become impaired and that if we do not learn frugality and  discrimina-
tion in the choice of our good we shall be punished by digestive  disorders.
We  will then be tempted to indulge in dainties and perhaps we will have  an
aversion for the simple foods which are best for us.   The temptation,  how-
ever,  will cause no trouble to the stomach unless we yield and satisfy  our
appetite.  Then the food, and not an avenging Deity, automatically  punishes


[PAGE 248]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

us until we learn to curb our appetite.   Similarly in other departments  of
life,  if Saturn is on the Ascendant or in the Third of Ninth Houses and ad-
versely  aspected  to  Mercury or the Moon it causes us to  brood  over  our
troubles and fills our lives with gloom.   It gives an obstruction there  to
warn us that we should be more sociable and not turn our faces away from the
sunshine  of life.   God is at the helm of the universe,  His ministers  are
continually  working with us for good,  there is really no reason for  blues
and  if we cannot see it today Saturn is going to tighten his grip  tomorrow
and  crush harder and harder until with the sheer courage of desperation  we
burst his bonds and jump out into the joy and sunshine of life.

   If it were not for the chastening, subduing influence of Saturn we should
be liable to run amuck and burn out the lamp of life quickly in the  exuber-
ance  of  spirits.   Saturn  is well symbolized  as  Father  Time  with  his
hour-glass  and scythe.   He does not permit us to leave the school of  life
until  the  time has been run and the course is  finished.   Furthermore  he
gives to humanity many of its noblest qualities.  When he lays a restraining
hand upon the flighty Moon or Mercury, the swift "messenger of the gods," he
deepens  the mind and makes it more serious and better able  to  concentrate
upon the problems of life.  He makes the mind resourceful and better able to
cope with the difficulties of our existence.  Tact and diplomacy, method and
system,  patience  and  perseverance,  honor  and  chastity,   industry  and


[PAGE 249]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

mechanical ability, justice and fair-mindedness all come from Saturn when he
is well-aspected and it is only when we transgress the principles for  which
he stands that under the influences generated by his adverse aspects he pun-
ishes  us  until  he has brought us to our knees to pray to  our  Father  in
Heaven for forgiveness and strength to overcome our lower nature.

                         SATURN IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

   SATURN  IN THE FIRST HOUSE and well-aspected is a fortunate sign  for  no
matter  how  a person may be handicapped in the start of life  the  ultimate
success is assured through the patience,  persistence,  self-control and re-
straint of the person through a well-placed Saturn.  Such people have a won-
derful capacity for work.   They seem never to tire and never to give up  no
matter what the obstacles.   They have infinite confidence in themselves and
their  ability  to accomplish that which they undertake and  therefore  they
eventually win.  But when Saturn is weak and afflicted in the First House it
makes the person timid and averse to undertake responsibility; subtile,  se-
cretive,  and distrustful of other people; of a gloomy disposition  and  in-
clined  to seek isolation.   Such people are usually shunned by  others  and
doomed to sorrow,  disappointment,  delay and general trouble through  life.
This is also a bad  sign  for  health,  particularly  in  the earlier years.


[PAGE 250]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Bruises to the head, colds, and if Scorpio is rising,  constipation;  in our
Leo poor circulation,  in Cancer poor digestion, in Libra obstruction of the
kidneys,  renal  calculi and other urinary difficulties and so on  with  the
other signs.

   SATURN IN THE SECOND HOUSE when well-aspected and particularly in its ex-
altation sign Libra,  brings money by inheritance and ability to increase it
by present economy,  careful,  conservative investments and similar methods.
Some  of  the very wealthiest of the world's financiers have had  Saturn  in
this position.   They obtain the money wherewith to start from ancestors in-
dicated  by Saturn and from the saturnine ray in this house they derive  the
business  acumen and far-sighted methods that enable them not only  to  hold
their  own as so many do whose wealth comes through Saturn but also  to  in-
crease the inherited estate.  If Saturn is weak or afflicted,  however,  the
life is sure to be passed in poverty.

   SATURN IN THE THIRD HOUSE when well-aspected gives a serious,  sober  and
thoughtful mind,  capable of concentration and well able to grapple with the
most profound sciences and other serious subjects in life.   It gives  tact,
diplomacy, justice, honest and all the other saturnine virtues of the mind.

   When Saturn is afflicted in the  Third  House  it  indicates trouble with


[PAGE 251]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

brethren,  danger when traveling, delays and disappointments in obtaining an
education.   It also fills the mind with gloomy forebodings,  worry and gen-
eral despondency.

   SATURN IN THE FOURTH HOUSE, well-aspected,  shows gain from  inheritance,
also success from investments and administration of houses and lands,  agri-
culture  or  mining property under careful and economical  management.   The
success  grows  better as life advances.  When Saturn is  afflicted  in  the
Fourth House it signifies the early death of one of the parents,  in harmony
and trouble in the home, loss of property and consequent poverty.   This po-
sition whether well or ill aspected makes the person a recluse in the latter
years of life.

   SATURN IN THE FIFTH HOUSE when well-aspected by the Sun and Jupiter would
be good for speculation  in  the  things  that  are ruled by Saturn: houses,
lands and mines. This position and its aspects would also give the person  a
chance of appointment to public office, especially in matters connected with
education.   If Saturn is afflicted in the Fifth House it indicates trouble,
disappointment  and  delay in courtship,  particularly  during  the  earlier
years,  or else the affections are centered upon someone who is  much  older
than the person whose horoscope is being judged.  It decreases the number of


[PAGE 252]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

children and indicates probable death of those who are born,  also that they
will bring a great deal of trouble to the person.

   SATURN  IN THE SIXTH HOUSE,  well-aspected,  gives the person ability  to
handle  employees  and workmen in general in a most  efficient  manner,  for
though  such a person is quiet and subdued he is at the same time  firm  and
serious.  He has a way about him which employees respect and which calls for
instant  obedience  to his commands without causing  the  resentment  called
forth by a blustering, bellowing Mars.

   When  Saturn  is afflicted in the Sixth House it means a  great  deal  of
sickness in the life and if in a weak sign like Virgo the person is in  dan-
ger of becoming a chronic invalid, for one he is in the grip of sickness the
recuperative powers are so poor it is almost impossible for him to  recover.
The nature of the principal illness will depend upon the sign that is on the
cusp of the Sixth House or of the Twelfth, but usually with such people many
complications set in after this.   Also a person with an afflicted Saturn in
the  Sixth House finds it almost impossible to secure employment and  it  is
evident  that such a person has indeed a hard life,  being unable to earn  a
living when able to be about.


[PAGE 253]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

   SATURN IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE when well-aspected denotes a marriage partner
endowed with the saturnine virtues,  chastity and discretion,  tact and dis-
crimination, prudence and economy, which will be of great help to the person
in building up his fortunes socially as well as financially;  and this is  a
very fortunate position save for the fact that Saturn in the Seventh  House,
whether well-aspected or afflicted,  indicates the early death of the  part-
ner.   An afflicted Saturn in the Seventh House designates a  glum,  gloomy,
cold  and disagreeable companion who is always restraining  and  obstructing
the person.   "Don't"  is the word most frequently on the tongue.   It  also
gives trouble and loss through litigation and people with this aspect should
never  go to law or enter into partnerships for they will always be  subject
to treachery.

   SATURN IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE when well-aspected or placed in either of  its
own  signs,  Capricorn or Libra,  gains my marriage or inheritance with  the
ability to properly care for whatever wealth is acquired in that manner.  It
is also a sign of long life and death from natural causes,  but if Saturn is
afflicted in the Eighth House or weak by sign,  especially in Aries or  Can-
cer,  the  financial prospects of the person will be decidedly  worse  after
marriage and chronic debility may be expected.


[PAGE 254]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   SATURN IN THE NINTH HOUSE when Saturn gives a deep,  serious and thought-
ful mind with ability and inclination for the study of law, science and phi-
losophy,  physics or metaphysics.  It is a splendid position for a president
of a corporation or college,  a judge or a divine.   Such people always make
their mark in the world, the scope of being naturally dependent upon the na-
ture of the aspects and the line of endeavor selected by the person.

   When  Saturn  is afflicted in the Ninth House he makes  a   narrow-minded
bigot,  critical and sarcastic;  he also gives liability to trouble and loss
through law, danger on voyages and trouble in foreign lands.

   SATURN  IN  THE  TENTH HOUSE shows a strong  self-reliant  and  ambitious
spirit  with the patience and perseverance which make a person  destined  to
rise in life.   It is the signature of the self-made man,  self-made by  all
the sterling saturnine ventures, tact, foresight, honesty and systematic ap-
plication to business.   Such people are destined to become captains of  in-
dustry, presidents of banks or hold other high positions involving great re-
sponsibility.

   When  Saturn is afflicted or weak by the sign he nevertheless  gives  the
person  who has him in the Tenth House,  ability to rise,  but when he  does
rise it is by underhanded trickery and questionable  business  methods which


[PAGE 255]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

in the end bring exposure, downfall and dishonor.   It is said that Napoleon
had Saturn in the Tenth House.

   SATURN  IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE when well-aspected gives friends among  the
aged and wealth who will be of benefit to the person in helping him to real-
ize his hopes,  wishes and ambitions;  but when Saturn is afflicted here  he
should  beware of seeking friends older than himself,  for they will  always
endeavor  to make use of him for personal ends and desert him when he is  no
longer of use to them.

   SATURN  IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE gives a secluded life in a position  or  oc-
cupation  where the person does not come into contact with the general  pub-
lic.   When well-aspected it is good for success in an official capacity  in
public institutions, asylums, hospitals or prisons.  When afflicted there is
danger of being bed-ridden for many years,  imprisoned,  or employed in  ob-
scure positions.

                         SATURN IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

   SATURN  IN  ARIES  is  weak and therefore  unable  to  express  his  best
qualities to their full and legitimate extent even if well-aspected.  Never-
theless  he gives a minor measure of poise,  self-reliance,  discretion  and
tact, industry, patience and perseverance.  But when Saturn is  afflicted in


[PAGE 256]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Aries  the person is quickly angered and apt to hold spite,  and also  of  a
jealous, malicious, and vindictive disposition.

   SATURN  IN  TAURUS when well-aspected makes a person slow of  speech  but
that he says will have weight and be well worth hearing.   It gives a  quiet
disposition,  slow to decide,  but stubborn in maintaining a  position  once
taken.   These people are close-mouthed, and my be trusted to keep their own
and other people's secrets well.   When Saturn is afflicted in Taurus,  par-
ticularly  by Mercury he always causes trouble with the speech and  gives  a
quick temper,  especially if Mars is also an afflicting planet.   This posi-
tion makes financial difficulties.

   SATURN  IN GEMINI when well-aspected gives a deep,  one-pointed,  orderly
and  scientific mind,  adaptable to circumstances and able to cope with  all
the exigencies of life.   Love of mathematics is usually pronounced and when
literature  is taken up as a vocation the more serious branches  devoted  to
industrial and mechanical subjects are preferred.   When Saturn is afflicted
in  Gemini,  it gives trouble through brothers and sisters,  literature  and
law,  danger on short journeys.   An afflicted Saturn in Gemini  also  gives
trouble with the lungs.   Such people should therefore be particularly care-
ful not to catch cold.


                             --- END OF FILE ---

