[PAGE 257]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

   SATURN  IN CANCER is always weak and his virtues therefore find  it  dif-
ficult to express themselves when he is in this position.    Nevertheless he
gives reliable judgment concerning houses, lands,  mines etc.,  and gains by
investing in these things; when well-aspected, he favors thrift, economy and
solid comfort in the home with quiet, peaceful and comfortable conditions in
the latter part of life.   He makes the person frugal and gives a good  con-
trol of the appetite.   But when afflicted he indicates domestic infelicity,
the  person being held back in life by a gloomy kill-joy partner who is  al-
ways restraining every ambitious thought.   Trouble,  sorrow and disappoint-
ment increase as the life advances and to this is added ill-health, for Sat-
urn  in  Cancer indicates that the stomach is weak and the gums  subject  to
pyorrhoea, hence there is inability to properly digest the food, so that un-
less  such people have sufficient will to curb their appetites  they  become
the victims to chronic indigestion.  Saturn in Cancer also indicates a reli-
gious tendency and an inclination toward study of the deeper sciences.

   SATURN  IN LEO when well-aspected gives favor from people higher  in  the
social  scale and success in obtaining public appointments where the  Satur-
nine virtues, tact,  diplomacy,  discretion and system,  honor and executive


[PAGE 258]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

ability are required.  The constitution of these people is not overly strong
by  they may maintain perfect health by the conservation of energy as  indi-
cated by Saturn.   When Saturn is afflicted in Leo however,  they are  cruel
and  quick-tempered,  jealous,  and do not scruple to stoop  to  underhanded
methods to satisfy an ambition.  This position also indicates heart trouble.

   SATURN IN VIRGO gives a studious, deep,  scientific mind of studying  the
deeper problems of life.   It indicates an innate ability to manage  others.
It  gives a thrifty,  economical and frugal nature,  but when Saturn is  af-
flicted  in Virgo the mind usually centers upon disease and the  person  be-
comes a confirmed hypochondriac.  These people are the nest customers of the
patent medicine vendors for most of their ills are usually imaginary.   This
position does however, carry with it a liability to intestinal diseases.

   SATURN IN LIBRA is exalted and very strong and therefore his good aspects
bring  out all the fine saturnine qualities and on that account  secure  for
the  person public esteem and recognition.   The marriage partner is  chaste
and pure as gold.  This position also brings good health and long life,  but
when Saturn is afflicted in Libra the marriage partner is either treacherous
or  removed by an early death.   If the person goes to law he is  likely  to
lose, and become the object of public disfavor.  He  will also be subject to


[PAGE 259]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

urinary troubles.

   SATURN IN SCORPIO when well-aspected gives a rare mechanical turn to  the
mind,  a resourcefulness under the most difficult conditions, an indomitable
courage and a patient persistence before which even the most difficult  con-
struction problems must give way.   Hence such people make exceedingly  able
engineers  and are invaluable in all pioneer undertakings;  they  blend  the
fire  of Mars with the forethought of Saturn and are  therefore  invincible.
They  gain by legacy,  economy and thrift and their financial  fortunes  are
much  improved after marriage.   Good health and a long life are also  indi-
cated, but when Saturn is afflicted in Scorpio the marriage partner is poor,
dull,  egotistical  and  exacting  and the person is  liable  to  worry  and
ill-health; constipation and piles are the basic causes when then affect the
nerves and the whole system.

   SATURN  IN SAGITTARIUS when well-aspected gives a charitable and  philan-
thropic  disposition  with a desire to elevate humanity by  self-help  under
just laws and true religious impulse.  It couples all the saturnine  virtues
with the benevolent Jupiterian spirit of aspiration so that such people  al-
ways aim to work for the public good according to their ability and  station
in life.  Therefore they are trusted, honored,  respected and in much demand


[PAGE 260]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

for positions where these qualities are of value,  in social,  industrial or
religious  circles.   When Saturn is afflicted in Sagittarius he  makes  the
person  insincere,  cynical and sarcastic, ambitious to  fill  positions  of
trust and honor but for selfish purposes,  liable to become involved in  law
and  lose  thereby.   This position also affects the lungs  and  the  person
should be very careful not to catch cold.

   SATURN  IN CAPRICORN when well-aspected is strong and therefore his  vir-
tues are also pronounced, with honesty and integrity  as staunch as the Rock
of Gilbraltar and the determination to work toward the desired goal no  mat-
ter  how long it may take.   Hence in spite of all handicaps  and  obstacles
people  with a well-aspected Saturn in Capricorn ultimately achieve a  large
measure of success and are generally esteemed by their contemporaries.   But
when Saturn is afflicted in Capricorn the mind is gloomy and the person sees
life from a biased point of view.  There is a general sense of  dissatisfac-
tion which sometimes develops into a diseased mind.   These people are  cun-
ning, underhanded and not to be trusted.

   SATURN IN AQUARIUS when well-aspected gives a humane outlook upon life, a
sympathetic  and friendly disposition,  very distinct and deliberate  speech
and  a  seriousness in all affairs of life.   These  people  therefore  make
friends among the aged,  the  wealthy  and  the intellectual who are able to


[PAGE 261]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

help then rise in life.   But when Saturn is afflicted in Aquarius it  makes
the  disposition shrewd,  cunning and alert to prey upon others  by  gaining
their confidence and friendship and such people therefore sink to the  lower
levels of society.   This position also carries with it a tendency to  heart
trouble and varicose veins.

   SATURN  IN PISCES when well-aspected gives a tendency to success in  some
quiet peaceful line of life where these people do not come into contact with
the public, such as laboratory or research work or in connection with insti-
tutions  for  the  care  of  wards  of  the  community;   they  are  regular
"home-bodies"  but  when Saturn is afflicted in Pisces it  gives  danger  of
confinement by a chronic disease or liability to imprisonment.   The  person
makes many enemies who will be persistent in their persecution of him.

                            THE ASPECTS OF SATURN

   THE SUN SEXTILE OR TRINE SATURN endows the person who is fortunate enough
to have it with some of the finest faculties in the gamut, for it brings out
the best qualities in the two planets.  It gives foresight, method and orga-
nizing ability with the moral stamina to carry any project determined on  to
a successful conclusion despite delays and  obstacles.  Yet the person makes


[PAGE 262]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

no  enemies in so doing,  for this configuration also makes him the soul  of
honor, kind and considerate; he would never stoop to do anything mean for he
is  sincere and just in his dealings with all men,  but on the  other  hand,
when he believes a certain course of action to be right he will never swerve
there  from  through heaven and earth be moved against him.   These  aspects
bring success in political and judicial positions,  also in connection  with
mining or agriculture.  The person often benefits by legacy, but recognition
and success are generally delayed till middle life.

   THE SUN CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL SATURN.  Either aspect has a very  detri-
mental effect upon health,  especially in the common signs where the  resis-
tance  is fundamentally low;  in Gemini, Sagittarius and Pisces it  gives  a
tendency to tuberculosis.  It does least damage in the fixed signs where the
resistance is greatest,  but when sickness does get a grip on the person  it
hangs  on like grim death,  for this configuration lessens the power of  the
body to throw off disease quickly, hence recuperation is very slow.  This is
especially  true in a man's horoscope;  in a woman's figure it  affects  her
husband's health.

   THE  SUN SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO SATURN.   These aspects are  adverse  to
that  which  is  generally  termed  success,  but  they give an abundance of


[PAGE 263]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

experience,  so they are excellent form the standpoint of the soul.   It may
truly be said of the person who has either that "the best-laid plans of mice
and men gang aft agely," for no matter how carefully be may plan his affairs
he will be subjected to delays and meet obstacles which will thwart his  de-
sires;  his  marriage often is unhappy and is likely to end  in  divorce  or
early death of the partner;  there is difficulty in finding and keeping  em-
ployment,  trouble with employers and authorities, a feeling as if  he  were
held  in leash all his life and denied expression in any  direction.   These
are the outward experiences but they are generated by the inner nature,  and
until that changes he must suffer the whiplash of necessity.   In the  first
place such a person has a tendency to crawl into a shall and shut himself in
and others out.   He is pessimistic and a kill-joy,  has little or no regard
for  the feelings of others and is very obstinate.   In the horoscope  of  a
woman  it signifies marriage to one much older,  a person who will hold  her
with  a very tight rein;  it augurs death of the husband and  often  several
marriages which are terminated by death or divorce.

   These configurations often bring legacies but either there is trouble and
litigation  over the bequests,  or the person squanders the estate after  he
receives it.  If Saturn is in Libra, his exaltation-sign, the latter part of
the  life  may be better because the person has taken the lessons of life to


[PAGE 264]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

heart and mended his ways.

   VENUS SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO SATURN.   The good qualities of Venus are love
and affection and the good qualities of Saturn are tact, diplomacy ,  method
and  system,  justice,  thrift and economy, and we may therefore judge  that
when these two planets are configurated in good aspect they make the  person
faithful and true,  just and honorable,  diplomatic and tactful,  systematic
and methodical, qualities which make for success in all departments of life.
Therefore  a person with these aspects will be much sought as a  friend  and
adviser, or as a person to be trusted with any commission requiring sterling
honesty and ability.   The make him simple in his tastes and of  impeachable
morality.   Hence either is what one may call one of the luckiest aspects in
the gamut.

   VENUS PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO SATURN brings  out
the evil qualities of the two planets and troubles which are thus  generated
usually come through the person's relations with the opposite sex.  It makes
him  underhanded and scheming to gratify his passions,  often in an  unusual
manner,  and his perverted desires are usually directed against someone  who
is  much younger than himself.   If regular marriage relations  are  entered
into, such  a person is often a demon of jealously which makes life a burden


[PAGE 265]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

for the marriage partner on account of his suspicious nature.   People  with
these  afflictions  are  also stingy in all money  matters  and  exceedingly
avaricious.   They have very poor business judgment and are therefore liable
to  losses,  failure and bankruptcy.   During the earlier years people  with
these configurations should beware of dealings with older people who will be
prone to take advantage of them,  but later on it will be their turn to prey
upon the young.

   MERCURY SEXTILE OR TRINE TO SATURN acts as a brake upon the flighty  mind
and gives it a seriousness,  depth and concentration which is of inestimable
value in life.   The forethought and profound reasoning ability indicated by
these  aspects  insure success in whatever vocation the person  may  pursue.
The  patient persistence which permits no temporary failure to stand in  the
way of ultimate success,  also caution and diplomacy make such people invin-
cible in the long run.  Therefore they generally become prominent in connec-
tion  with some serious enterprise such as secret societies,  the church  or
even in politics.  They are in demand for high positions where a steady hand
is  required on the helm.   But they do not usually shine for they are  very
quiet, subdued and serious in their manner and demeanor.  They are absolute-


[PAGE 266]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

ly honest, hence they make the very finest judges obtainable.

   MERCURY CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO SATURN.  These aspects also give depth
to the mind and forethought, together with all the other good qualities enu-
merated as resulting from the sextile or the trine,  if Mercury is otherwise
well-aspected;  but not in so full a measure, or at any rate the person does
not seem to be able to externalize them as readily,  hence does not meet the
same assured success as given by the definitely good aspects;  he also  suf-
fers  from the tendency to melancholy denoted by the square  or  opposition,
especially if the aspect occurs in one of the common signs or in  Capricorn,
and if in Gemini it interferes sadly with the dexterity; such people tend to
drop everything they take into their hands.   These aspects also give an em-
barrassing  timidity and if Mercury is afflicted the  undesirable  qualities
enumerated as resulting from the square or opposition may be looked for.

   MERCURY  SQUARE  OR  OPPOSITION TO SATURN makes  the  person  subject  to
trouble and delays all through life.   He is thwarted on every hand by slan-
der and secret enemies and this condition in time makes him bitter and  sar-
castic  with  the additional consequence that he is shunned by all  who  can
possibly get away from him, and  that  in time leads him to become a recluse


[PAGE 267]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

who shuts himself away to brood over his troubles.   Such a person sometimes
becomes a subject of melancholia of a most piteous character.  These aspects
also make the person cunning and untruthful.   They give the same desire  to
study the occult conferred by the good aspects,  but there is the great dif-
ference  that  while the good aspects of Saturn and Mercury incline  to  the
study of occultism from unselfish motives the bad aspects impel him to  fer-
ret out nature's secrets for person power or gain.

   THE  MOON  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO SATURN imparts  all  the  best  saturnine
qualities tot he mind; it makes the person self-reliant, serious,  sober and
systematic,  careful  and thrifty in business affairs and gives  success  in
life through tactful and diplomatic dealings with others.   Such people  are
eminently reasonable and trustworthy in all matters of honor and justice and
gain great esteem in the community on that account.  Their patience and per-
sistence are inexhaustible.

   THE MOON CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO SATURN is not always to be classed as
a bad aspect so far as the mental qualities go,  for in any case it  deepens
the mind and gives greater power of concentration,  but if Saturn is  strong
by sign, in Libra or Capricorn, and the Moon is otherwise well-aspected this
position also will impart the virtues of  Saturn,  through  under all condi-


[PAGE 268]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

tions  it  makes  the mind gloomy and the person is  subject  to  periodical
spells of melancholy;  but if Saturn is weak by sign, especially if he is in
Aries and if the Moon is otherwise afflicted,  then his conjunction is to be
judged  and  read the same as the square and opposition  The effect  of  the
conjunction also depends upon the department of life we are considering; for
instance,  the conjunction of the Moon and Saturn is good for  concentration
of the mind, but bad for the digestion, particularly in a woman's horoscope,
where it has also the tendency to obstruct the menses with all that that im-
plies, and in a man's horoscope it indicates the death of the marriage part-
ner.   Similar distinctions should be made when reading the conjunctions  of
the so-called malefics.

    THE MOONSQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO SATURN is one of the signatures of  sor-
row  in life,  for it makes the mind melancholy and full of worries so  that
the  person  is constantly carrying an atmosphere of gloom with him  and  as
thoughts  are  things this attitude of mind brings about delays  and  disap-
pointments in every department of life.  Such a person will experience  dif-
ficulties from persons and things signified by Saturn, probably parents, and
if he has money he may lose it and have difficulty in getting more.  Thus he


[PAGE 269]                                       SATURN, THE PLANT OF SORROW

may be in poverty all his life.   He will make more enemies than friends and
become subject to slander and scandal, but the disfavor he meets is undoubt-
edly  merited  for these aspects make the mind bitter and selfish  and  such
people are unscrupulous,  avaricious and entirely unfeeling with respect  to
others,  hence  they are under the whiplash of Saturn that  the  sorrow  and
troubles  which  they themselves are constantly feeling may make  them  more
mellow.   If the aspect is six,  five or even four degrees from being  exact
and if Saturn is in his exaltation sign Libra these aspects are not quite so
evil  in the latter part of life.   They may then imply that the person  has
learned  his lesson and as a consequence he may find himself in easier  cir-
cumstances.   The adverse aspects of Saturn to the Moon are very had for the
health, particularly in the woman's horoscope.  There they indicate obstruc-
tions of the female functions.  In the man's horoscope they either deny mar-
riage  or indicate the death of the marriage partner and their general  ten-
dency is to obstruct everything connected with the houses and signs  wherein
they are placed in the horoscope.

   JUPITER  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO SATURN gives a strong character with a  deep
and  profoundly philosophical mind,  a benevolent disposition with a  strong
sense of justice and fair play.  All  the  virtues of Saturn and Jupiter are


[PAGE 270]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

combined by these aspects and people in whose horoscope they are found  will
consequently  gain honor and esteem in the community where they  are.   They
will be looked upon as the pillars of society and gain prosperity  commensu-
rate with the environment in which they are placed,  for these aspects  give
sound financial judgment,  the ability to grasp opportunity when it is  met,
benevolence, devotion to duty, religion and all good objects in life.

   JUPITER PARALLEL OR CONJUNCTION SATURN has the same beneficent  influence
as the sextile or trine,  though not in as great a measure and if Jupiter is
weak by sign or otherwise afflicted the aspects will probably count for very
little,  but in that case its effect upon the arterial circulation  will  be
obstructive,  giving a tendency to sclerosis of the arteries the same as the
opposition and square.

   JUPITER  SQUARE  OR OPPOSITION TO SATURN gives a  diffident,  vacillating
mind unable to form decisions,  always distrustful of others,  indolent  and
inclined  to  drift with the tide,  often a ward of society  either  in  the
poor-house or the prison,  for the character is basically dishonest.   These
aspects also give a tendency to arterio-sclerosis.


[PAGE 271]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

   MARS  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO SATURN gives a capable,  determined and  ener-
getic  nature capable of intense and sustained actions and of obtaining  un-
usual results thereby.  The executive ability, dominant forcefulness and en-
durance of these people are remarkable and consequently they are  constantly
accomplishing  that  others cannot achieve.  On account of  these  qualities
they always rise to prominent positions and are much esteemed on account  of
their  ability  but seldom liked for these aspects also make  the  character
cruel and hard.  They give a strong physique and general good health.

   MARS CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO SATURN.   These are
thoroughly bad aspects indicating a selfish,  violent,  harsh and cruel  na-
ture,  quick-tempered and vindictive, absolutely dishonest  and  untruthful;
unscrupulous and liable to public disgrace and imprisonment,  also to  acci-
dent and a violent death, but if one of the planets is essentially dignified
or  exalted the evil influence is much enhanced.   It should also be  remem-
bered  that such serious defects do not result from one aspect alone and  if
the other configurations in the horoscope are good the foregoing delineation
will only apply in a very mild measure.

   URANUS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO SATURN is fortunate for a public career in  an
officially capacity for it gives ambition  and determination with ability to


[PAGE 272]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

concentrate  upon  large problems and exercise authority,  plan  upon  large
problems and exercise authority,  plan and systematize.   It strengthens the
intuition so that such people are guided by an interior insight when new and
important steps have to be taken,  therefore they are in demand and find po-
sitions with large corporations where they win their way through sheer abil-
ity.   The mind is both mechanical and ingenious,  hence this position often
denotes the successful inventor,  particularly  along the lines of  electri-
city.

   URANUS  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO SATURN has an influence like the  good
aspects of the planets are elevated, in angles, essentially dignified or ex-
alted, as Saturn in Libra or Capricorn or Uranus in Aquarius or Scorpio; but
if the conjunction occurs in signs where either of the planets is weak, like
Aries,  Taurus,  Cancer,  or Leo then the influence will be detrimental  and
should be judged the same as the square or opposition.

   URANUS  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO SATURN gives an  unscrupulous,  dishonest
nature with an extremely violent temper.   The outbursts are as sudden as  a
bolt from the blue and exhaust the person completely.  These people are very
eccentric and look at everything from a peculiar angle;  they are  treacher-
ous,  idle,  indolent  and  altogether  dangerous  to  the community.  These


[PAGE 273]                                       SATURN THE PLANET OF SORROW

aspects  also indicate chronic or incurable diseases according to the  signs
wherein they are placed,  but as said, if the other indications in the horo-
scope are good the influence of a single aspect will not bring out such evil
characteristics and therefore the whole horoscope is to be carefully consid-
ered  before  judging the influence enumerated for they  may  be  materially
minimized by favorable indications in the horoscope.

   NEPTUNE SEXTILE OR TRINE TO SATURN is good for success in worldly affairs
for  it brings out the saturnine virtues--honor,  self-reliance,  determina-
tion,  etc.,  by which the person gains the confidence and esteem of others,
but  the principal effect is spiritual and therefore only felt by those  who
are able to respond because of other aspects in the horoscope.   To them  it
gives the ability to delve deeply into occult and mystical subjects, also to
become proficient in the art and practice of them.

   NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO SATURN has the same effect as the good
aspects  when it occurs in a sign where either of the planets are strong  as
Neptune is in Cancer and Pisces and Saturn in Libra and Capricorn.

   NEPTUNE SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO SATURN lays the person liable to loss  by
deception, treachery or fraud.


[PAGE 274]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                CHAPTER XIII

                      JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

   From  each of the divine Hierarchies which have ministered at  birth  and
evolution of humanity we have received certain qualities and faculties  upon
which  we are being nursed from nescience to omniscience and from  impotence
to omnipotence in life's great school.   From the Lords of Venus we received
the  priceless gift of love which links humanity in the tenderest  affection
of varying degrees and makes life beautiful.   From the Lords of Mercury  we
received  the no less valuable gift of mind which enables us to conquer  the
material  world and provide ourselves with the comforts of life,  but  some-
thing more is needed.  The divine spark within us is every seeking an outlet
and the greater the two qualities of love and intellect grow,  the  stronger
the  upward urge,  but this cannot be fully satisfied either if  the  Spirit
seeks to raise itself to its divine source only through the love nature  ex-
pressed by Venus and culminating in its higher octave Uranus.  The religious
fervor  then  expresses itself as devotion of the most  sublime  nature  but
there is still a lack.   Feeling without knowledge is incomplete.   Nor  can
the inner urge be satisfied if through the mercurial channel of intellect it
attempts to raise itself to the spiritual perception of Neptune,  the higher


[PAGE 275]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

octave of Mercury,  for though the intellect be sharp as a razor it is of no
account  when it is devoid of love.  It therefore follows that ONLY  BY  THE
WEDDING OF LOVE AND INTELLECT CAN WISDOM BE BORN. The mercurial knowledge in
itself,  through neither good nor evil,  may be used for one purpose or  the
other.   Even genius shows only the bent of this knowledge.   We speak of  a
military  genius,  one who has a wonderful knowledge of the tactics of  war,
but a man of war, whether he be a Napoleon or a common soldier, is not be be
classed as wise because he deliberately crushes the finer feelings of  which
we  take the heart as symbol.   Only when the mercurial faculty of  mind  is
tempered,  blended and balanced by the heart-born faculty of love  generated
by  the Venus ray,  is wisdom born of the union.   And this is  the  quality
which  the planetary spirit of Jupiter is seeking to infuse into mankind  to
aid them in their spiritual evolution that they may rise above the  material
plane and soar to higher spheres.  Therefore the Jupiterian ray makes people
human,  honorable,  courteous,  refined and generous,  law-abiding and reli-
gious, cheerful and optimistic.  The true Jupiterian is aptly described as a
jovial  fellow,  and he is usually large but his heart is almost too big  to
find room even within his capacious chest.  The corners of his mouth are al-
ways turned upward with a broad smile that can only be described as  radiant
and  in his hearty good-feeling he is so demonstrative that when  he  shakes
your  hand  the  ligaments  of  your  arm  are almost sprained.  He is "hail


[PAGE 276]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

fellow well met"  with everybody, always ready to give anything or anybody a
boost.  He seems actually grateful to you when you ask him to do you a favor
and  is never so happy as when working hard to help others.   He  would  not
harm  a  child  and never gets angry on his own account but  when  moved  to
righteous indignation on account of the wrongs of others then he may be ter-
rible in his wrath,  yet he will never be cruel to the aggressor or the  op-
pressor,  but show mercy and kindness even to them as soon as they have been
vanquished.   Such is the pure Jupiterian,  but of course he is very  seldom
found at the present time.  Nevertheless, an increasing number of people are
beginning to walk the way of wisdom and show the Jupiterian traits.

   It is said that "Opportunity knocks at every man's door,"  yet  we  often
hear people bewail their fate because they "never had a chance."   Saturn is
blamed for our misfortunes when we have learned to study Astrology;  we  are
so  intently on the lookout for evil that we usually forget to look for  the
good,  and thus miss our opportunity.   It takes Saturn thirty years  to  go
around the horoscope, by transit, and form aspects to all planets, but Jupi-
ter,  the most beneficent influence in the solar system, goes around once in
eleven  years  and thus the good fortunes which he may brings are  at  least
three times as numerous as the misfortunes brought by Saturn's evil aspects.

   As  a  matter  of  fact,  we  get  from others just what we give, each is


[PAGE 277]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

surrounded  by a subtle auric atmosphere which colors our views  of  others,
and  the thoughts,  ideas and actions of others towards us.   If  we  harbor
meanness in our hearts,  that colors this atmosphere so that we see meanness
in others and in their actions towards us, we awaken this trait in them,  as
vibrations  from a tuning-fork start another of the same pitch to sing.   On
the other had, if we cultivate the Jupiterian qualities of benevolence,  his
expansive smile,  his cordial attitude of mind, etc., we shall soon feel the
response in our circle of acquaintances and the beneficent aspect of Jupiter
will them have greater effect in making our life and work pleasant.

   Jupiter is essentially dignified when found in Pisces, or in Sagittarius,
the sign of aspiration.  He is exalted in Cancer, the house of the Moon, for
the  seed-atom which furnishes the body of the incoming Ego is protected  by
the  Moon into the sphere of Cancer but in Jupiter represents the  spiritual
part  and  therefore he presides at the ingress of the Ego itself  into  the
body.   He also rules the blood in which the indwelling spirit finds expres-
sion,  though his activities are confined principally to the arterial circu-
lation.   He furthers assimilation and growth,  and therefore he also  rules
the liver.   (Saturn rules the gall bladder.)  Jupiterians are very fond  of
show and display.   In their religious observances they love ceremonial  and
they  are  rather partial to the established church but  often  dislike  any
"ism" not sanctioned by society or correct form.


[PAGE 278]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   When Jupiter is afflicted his influence makes the person lawless,  sensu-
ous,  self-indulgent, gluttonous, extravagant and careless in the payment of
his obligations,  hence liable to loss of health,  trouble with the law  and
consequent social disgrace.  An afflicted Jupiter makes people sporty,  fond
of horse-racing and gambling.

                        JUPITER IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

   JUPITER  IN THE FIRST HOUSE when well-aspected is a good sign  of  health
and general fortune in life.  It gives a good-natured, kindly disposition, a
nature which breathes cordiality, honor and uprightness.   These people love
pleasure,  particularly out-of-doors, and are fond of traveling.   They have
considerable executive ability and are therefore sought for positions of im-
portance and responsibility.   There is an inclination to stoutness in later
years.

   Jupiter  afflicted on the Ascendant gives a tendency to  self-indulgence,
according to the sign wherein he is placed.  If in Cancer the person becomes
an inveterate glutton and literally makes a god of his stomach with the  in-
evitable  result that in the course of years he becomes  excessively  stout,
the  liver being particularly enlarged and as a consequence he is  subjected
to sickness of a serious nature.   In Sagittarius it makes him an inveterate
gambler  who  would  stake  his  soul  on  the toss of a coin.  In Pisces he


[PAGE 279]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

becomes an incurable drunkard,  in Scorpio a sensualist of the worst  nature
and so on with the other signs.   It may also be said that whenever  Jupiter
is afflicted on the Ascendant the health suffers through some corruption  of
the blood.

   JUPITER IN THE SECOND HOUSE when well-aspected,  particularly by the  Sun
or  Moon,  gives great financial prosperity in life and this is a  fortunate
position in that respect even when Jupiter is afflicted, but then the person
is liable to loss under bad directions.  When Jupiter is unaspected he gives
no help; the person may then be poor and starve.

   JUPITER  IN THE THIRD HOUSE when well-aspected gives a mind of  a  highly
optimistic  nature  so that no matter what other obstacles there may  be  in
life the person who has this position will always look at the silver  lining
of the cloud and in so doing forget the cloud itself.   He will have  excep-
tional  educational advantages and what is more the education which  he  re-
ceives will be of great benefit to him.  He will be popular among his broth-
ers,  sisters and neighbors and they will help to benefit him.   Success  is
indicated by traveling, writing and publications.  When Jupiter is afflicted
in the Third House the person is liable to be in wrecks and accidents  while
traveling,  but  he  will  not  be  injured though he escape only by a hair-


[PAGE 280]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

breadth.  If Saturn afflicts he will become careless and indolent, thus for-
feiting the respect and esteem of his immediate family,  but if Mars is  ad-
verse they will mistrust him because of rash and imprudent acts.

   JUPITER IN THE FOURTH HOUSE when well-aspected is most fortunate for  the
home conditions, especially in the latter part of life.  People with Jupiter
in this position will do better in their place of birth than anywhere  else.
They will receive considerable help from the parents and probably an  inher-
itance from them.   Their business affairs will be on a solid basis and  run
smoothly so that at the close of life there will be a considerable accumula-
tion according to their station and the opportunities of their  environment.
They  pass  their  days  in peace and end  them  amid  friends,  wealth  and
prosperity.   But when Jupiter is afflicted in the Fourth House  the  person
should leave his native town early in life for the conditions there will  be
detrimental to this success.   Lavish and extravagant expenditure,  love  of
display  and kindred costly tendencies will sap his resources and bring  him
into  bankruptcy;  besides a false pride will keep him  from  undertaking  a
radical reform even when he has awakened to the fact that he ought to do  so
if he would save himself and the only way out of it to make a new start will


[PAGE 281]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

be removal to another city.

   JUPITER  IN  THE FIFTH HOUSE and well-aspected increases  the  number  of
children  and  they will bring much profit and pleasure to the  parents;  it
gives popularity and good friends who will be a help to the person,  also  a
sociable and pleasure loving disposition.  Gain by speculation is foreshown,
high intelligence and success in educational work or the publishing or news-
paper business.   These people make fine teachers and have a very convincing
way  of putting things.   If Jupiter is afflicted in the Fifth House,  espe-
cially  in  Sagittarius,  it  gives a tendency  towards  gambling  and  loss
thereby,  a love of sports, disinclination for work,  and trouble with chil-
dren.

   JUPITER IN THE SIXTH HOUSE gives good health and success in the care  and
cure of the sick,  faithful servants, and the respect and esteem of all with
whom the person comes in contact in the course of his occupation.   But when
Jupiter  is  afflicted in the Sixth House it gives a tendency  toward  liver
troubles,  enlargement of the liver, obesity and general disorders  produced
by over-indulgence of the appetite.

   JUPITER IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE gives a noble, great-hearted and sympathetic
marriage  partner  who  will  bring  the  person  favor,  fortune and social


[PAGE 282]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

prestige.  It is an ideal indication for marriage, also for a person seeking
to  take a partner or enter into partnership.   He may also be assured  that
the partner will be noble,  sincere, honest and trust-worthy,  and that suc-
cess will come by co-operation.  It is an ideal position for a lawyer for it
indicates success in law and the ability to reconcile opponents.  But if Ju-
piter  is weak of afflicted the person will lose his lawsuits or  suffer  by
misplaced confidence in his partner;  marriage will be delayed or denied and
when consummated trouble will arise through the indolence and self-indulgent
habits  of the marriage partner.   Therefore wisdom would dictate  that  the
person avoid such relationships.

   JUPITER  IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE when well-aspected indicates financial  gain
by marriage, partnerships or legacy, but when weak or afflicted it indicates
lawsuits and losses in connection with these matters.  A well-aspected Jupi-
ter  in the Eighth House is also a sign of an easy and peaceful  termination
of the life when the full course has been run.

   JUPITER  IN  THE  NINTH HOUSE gives a  peaceful,  noble,  optimistic  and
kind-hearted  disposition,  with  religious  tendencies,   broad-minded  and
tolerant of the opinions of others,  but favoring the more orthodox and  es-
tablished lines of thought.  The person is much esteemed  in society and apt


[PAGE 283]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

to occupy prominent positions in church, state or in institutions of  learn-
ing  or  philanthropic associations.   This position also gives  a  love  of
travel with pleasure and gain thereby.   But when weak or afflicted by  sign
or aspect it gives arrogance and love of display which is our of  proportion
with the person's pocketbook,  consequently there are lawsuits and liability
to social discredit.  It also shows danger when traveling.

   JUPITER IN THE TENTH HOUSE when well-aspected is one of the best  indica-
tion of an eminently successful and virtuous life,  especially if he is sup-
ported by Saturn,  Sun and Moon, for then the person will rise to a high po-
sition in the church,  state or law and gain great wealth,  honor and social
esteem.   Furthermore he will deserve all he gets for the character will  be
of superlative nobility.   But if Jupiter be weak or afflicted in the  Tenth
House, particularly by Saturn or the luminaries, it shows that the character
is not reliable.   The person may rise but his evil deeds will find him  out
and therefore he will experience reversals of fortune and loss of prestige.

   JUPITER IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE and well-aspected gives wealthy and  influ-
ential  friends  who may be relied upon to help the person  to  realize  his
hopes, wishes and ambitions.  It also gives a sociable disposition and fond-
ness for pleasure.  In a man's horoscope it signifies that the marriage will


[PAGE 284]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

be  fruitful and that his children will be a credit and a help to  him,  but
before judgment is rendered in this respect the wife's horoscope should also
be examined to see whether it concurs,  for if not then the judgment must be
modified.  When Jupiter is afflicted in the Eleventh House either the person
meets friends who are good and sincere in their desire to help him but  lack
the  ability  or less the friends whom he attracts come to him  to  be  ben-
efited.   In either case he will not be helped much by friends but must  de-
pend upon his own resources to attain his desires.

   JUPITER  IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE when well-aspected brings gain and  success
through  occupations carried on in comparative seclusion such as  laboratory
work,  work in hospitals or asylums in an executive capacity;  or in a posi-
tion  in one of the fraternal orders which have to do with sick benefits  or
in  the study and practice of the mystical or occult arts.   If people  with
Jupiter  in this position are personally indigent they receive  much  bounty
from people or institutions of a fraternal or charitable nature, but if they
are well-to-do they give lavishly to these purposes.   If they have  enemies
they also have a way of turning them to friends.  If Jupiter is afflicted it
makes the person indolent and improvident so that in time he usually becomes
the ward of one of the charitable institutions where he lives  till  the end


[PAGE 285]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

of life without either trouble or worry.

                         JUPITER IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

   JUPITER IN ARIES gives a high-spirited, energetic and ambitious mind, al-
ways on the lookout and alert for new and progressive methods usable for ad-
vancement in the world's work, it makes a true pioneer,  neither too conser-
vative  not  too  impulsive,  a  thoughtful,  but  sympathetic  disposition,
sincere,  honest and trustworthy,  somewhat religiously inclined.   It gives
some legal of literary ability and a love of out-door games with  popularity
in social and business circles.  But if Jupiter is afflicted the mind is not
so conservative and well-balanced.   There is a tendency to rash and  impul-
sive acts;  impatience and temper are shown under adverse circumstances with
a consequent loss of esteem and popularity.

   JUPITER  IN TAURUS when well-aspected gives an eminently kind and  sympa-
thetic  nature  to all people but a deep-seated,  tender and warm  love  for
those towards whom the relationship warrants such expression.  This position
also  attracts  wealth and gives a generous disposition to  aid  in  philan-
thropic enterprises; yet Jupiter in the Second House or second sign is never
lavish or extravagantly generous but rather conservative and inclined to in-
vestigate the merits of any proposition before he extends a helping hand. On


[PAGE 286]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the  other hand he is absolutely open-handed to those who are near and  dear
to him.   His home and his family are all in all.  When Jupiter is afflicted
in  Taurus  it inclines to extravagant expenditures for  show,  display  and
gratification  of  the lower nature.  Such people are  great  gourmandizers,
fond of rich and savory foods that tickle the palate.  They often experience
financial difficulties and trouble with creditors, also such sickness as may
result from the over-indulgence of their appetites according to other  indi-
cations of the stars.

   JUPITER  IN  GEMINI when well-aspected gives literary ability of  a  high
class and if that is backed by the necessary education success in this  line
in certain.  This position also gives an inventive turn to the mind,  a love
of  mathematics  and an attraction towards the occult.   Jupiter  in  Gemini
shows that travel will bring both pleasure and profit and it gives an honor-
able,  courteous and friendly disposition.   But if Jupiter is afflicted the
person  is liable to meet with losses and trouble when traveling.   He  will
have  a number of hair-breadth escapes from accidents,  legal and  religious
trouble, also difficulties with brothers, sisters and close relatives.

   JUPITER IN CANCER.   The full effect of Jupiter for good or ill is  never
felt until the middle life and this is especially the case when he is placed


[PAGE 287]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

in the Fourth House or fourth sign, Cancer.  When well-placed there he gives
an  exceedingly kindly and courteous disposition, that is at peace with  all
the  world;  he  is endowed with a most vivid and  fruitful  imagination,  a
dreamer of Utopian dreams and a lover of the occult and mystical.   There is
also  however,  a practical side to the nature which makes him ambitious  to
attain worldly success and fortunate in his investment in houses,  lands  or
mines,  so that he will accumulate property and be well-to-do especially af-
ter middle life.   this position also indicates that the person may  receive
much help from his parents during life and an inheritance after their death.
Jupiter  in Cancer makes the person very fond of the pleasures of the  table
but  if well-aspected he will probably keep himself within such bounds  that
his health does not suffer.  If however, Jupiter is afflicted it inclines to
inordinate  gluttony which will eventually corrupt the blood and cause  such
disease and noxious growths as result from that condition.

   JUPITER IN LEO gives a truly noble nature, blending kindness and courage,
self-reliance and loyalty, self-restraint and compassion, mercy and justice.
It indicates,  in short, a paragon of virtues nowhere excelled.  It gives an
abundance of vitality and a strong constitution so that  it  marks  a leader


[PAGE 288]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

physically,  morally and spiritually, nor will such a person ever be content
to follow.  He craves positions of trust and responsibility, the greater the
better.   He will always be equal to the occasion and never abuse the confi-
dence of those who have placed him there.   Such people have an innate  cul-
ture and refinement.   They are fond of everything that tends to the  uplift
of humanity, religious, sincere; sure to win recognition and success dealing
in speculative investments.  When Jupiter is afflicted in Leo the person be-
comes cruel and sensuous, abnormally fond of pleasure and subject to loss by
investments, speculation and gambling.

   JUPITER IN VIRGO gives a cautious,  analytical and practical nature  with
an  almost unerring faculty for discriminating between the seeming  and  the
real,  for sifting truth from error and arriving at facts.  They cannot fer-
ret out secrets by underhanded methods as Saturn in Capricorn which makes an
ideal  detective,  but  if Jupiter in Virgo is the judge no  one  is  clever
enough to hide the truth from him.   A well-aspected Jupiter in Virgo  indi-
cates success with servants who will be found faithful and loyal,  ready  to
do their master's bidding.  It also indicates prosperity through business or
professional  vocations;  but if Jupiter is afflicted in Virgo  it  gives  a
cynical carping and critical disposition, mistrustful  of  others and there-


[PAGE 289]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

fore liable to loss through servants or employees.   Such people cannot suc-
ceed in business and they will find it extremely difficult to obtain or keep
a position.  At any rate they will serve in a very inferior capacity.

   JUPITER IN LIBRA when well-aspected gives a kind,  sympathetic and loving
disposition, a conscientious, sociable and benevolent nature and an interest
in all that makes for the uplift of humanity--music, art, literature, social
intercourse, et cetera.  On that account the person is popular, particularly
with the opposite sex from whence gain and benefit may be expected.  Success
in the business and public life are shown.   But if Jupiter is afflicted  in
Libra  undue  indulgence of the lower nature will bring trouble  and  public
scandal with a consequent loss of popularity and prestige.

   JUPITER IN SCORPIO gives an ardent,  aggressive and self-reliant  nature,
an enthusiastic,  constructive and resourceful mind with the ability to meet
all the exigencies of life in an efficient manner and it ensures success  in
practical everyday occupations,  gives a large family and plenty of means to
provide for them.  This position also shows a tendency towards occult inves-
tigations.   But if Jupiter is afflicted in Scorpio it will bring  loss  and
trouble through the indulgence of the lower nature in an inordinate measure,
love of rich an expensive good and sickness on that account.


[PAGE 290]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   JUPITER IN SAGITTARIUS when well-aspected gives good fortune and  general
success in life,  a humane, broad and philosophical mind, a reverent and re-
ligious  disposition.   Hence people with this position rise to the top  and
become  leaders  in  their  various  spheres  of  life,  finding  places  of
prominence in church or state,  scientific or philosophic enterprises or in-
stitutions.   If  Jupiter is afflicted in Sagittarius it  makes  the  person
sporty,  fond of cheap and gaudy display,  extravagant and ready to  take  a
chance on any gamble, causes loss of social standing if born in a better en-
vironment,  trouble through law, financial difficulties,  narrow-minded sec-
tarian views if incline to be religious.

   JUPITER  IN  CAPRICORN  gives  an  ambitious  nature,   self-reliant  and
self-controlled with a desire to rise to a position of authority over others
also the ability to dictate wisely and well.  It gives a careful, economical
disposition, and an abhorrence of waste; ingenuity, resourcefulness and some
mechanical ability.  These people are trust-worthy to a degree,  sincere and
honest in all their undertakings and hold every promise inviolate, therefore
they usually rise to honor, esteem and general popularity.   As already said
their aim is to attain  independence  at  the  head of some business, but if


[PAGE 291]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

they do not succeed in that and have to work for others they are best suited
to be in the employ of the government, either municipal or national.  On ac-
count  of the implicit trust generated by their sterling characteristics  of
honesty,  sincerity  and faithfulness these people are often  made  the  re-
cipients  of  confidence  from friends who feel the need  of  sharing  their
troubles with someone who can be depended upon either to give honest, disin-
terested advice or else to keep the secrets told then inviolate.  If Jupiter
is afflicted in Capricorn it makes a miser who will hoard all he can  scrape
together  and deny himself all except the barest necessities and  is  conse-
quently despised by all who know him.


   JUPITER  IN  AQUARIUS  when well-aspected  gives  a  humane,  optimistic,
original  and philosophic mind,  fond of friends and the society  of  others
particularly  those who are interested in science or  mysticism,  literature
and music, consequently he attracts people of that nature and they will be a
benefit  to him in helping him to realize his hopes,  wishes and  ambitions.
He  may possibly obtain a position of importance in some  official  capacity
with secret or occult societies.   This is a good indication of general suc-
cess in life, but if Jupiter is afflicted it makes the nature restless, ner-
vous and erratic with revolutionary or anarchistic ideas with disinclination


[PAGE 292]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

for serious work and such people are generally disliked and distrusted.

   JUPITER IN PISCES gives a charitable,  sympathetic and hospitable  nature
which  loves  to  minister to the outcasts of  society.   These  people  are
veritable angels of mercy to all who suffer in body,  soul or spirit.   They
are well known to those who are "sick of in prison."   Being of a  sensitive
nature  and subject to the influences from the invisible world they not  in-
frequently have psychic experiences and become students of the occult.  They
love music, art and literature and if well-aspected by Venus, Jupiter in Pi-
sces  will give considerable ability as a performer;  but if Jupiter is  af-
flicted in Pisces it gives a vacillating mind, a nerveless,  cowardly nature
indulging  in  all  vices  in  the  calendar  and  a  generally   despicable
dispositon--a social parasite.

                           THE ASPECTS OF JUPITER

   THE SUN CONJUNCTION, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO JUPITER.   The conjunction gives
a tendency to apoplexy, especially if it occurs in Aries,  but with that ex-
ception we may say that these configurations are sure indications of health,
wealth and happiness; they give the person an abundance of vitality which is
proof  even  against  very  severe  onslaughts  of  disease,  and  should  a


[PAGE 293]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

particularly  unfavorable planetary influence succeed in breaking  down  the
constitutional  resistance recovery will be so rapid as to seem  miraculous.
This nearly impregnable condition of health is all the more unassailable be-
cause it is backed by a disposition at once "sunny"  and "jovial"  and  that
latter  characteristic also makes the fortunate possessors of these  aspects
beloved by all with whom they come in contact;  everybody is glad to see the
person  with the perpetual smile,  but they do more than "smile"--they  EARN
the friendship universally bestowed upon them by deeds of kindness, by words
of sympathy,  cheer or hope as the occasion may demand.  They are trusted by
everybody  for they never betray a trust;  they have good clear heads,  good
judgment and executive ability so that they are well fitted to help  others.
These  characteristics also favor their own financial fortunes so that  they
accumulate wealth,  but theirs is never "tainted money,"  they never benefit
by the loss of others.   They are conservatively religious and may be  aptly
described as "pillars of society."  They shine particularly in  governmental
offices.

   THE  SUN SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER gives a tendency to  indulge  in
habits which are bad for the health; the person is far too fond of the "good
things in life" and very selfish in supplying his own comforts; he exercises
little  and  never  denies  himself,  with  the  result that the circulation


[PAGE 294]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

becomes  sluggish and as these people have a superabundance of  blood  their
lassitude  and indulgence is productive of various noxious growths and  kin-
dred disorders; sometimes a fit of anger raises the blood pressure to such a
point that a vessel burst and ends the life or leaves the person thenceforth
a useless wreck.   These aspects give a bombastic,  haughty disposition with
an inordinate love of display and thus induce to extravagance both in social
and business affairs with the result that the person sometimes finds himself
involved  in  debt which he cannot pay and then there is but a step  to  the
bankruptcy  court.   A false pride often prevents these people from  working
honestly  for others so they would rather prey upon the public  as  gamblers
where there is an opportunity to swindle other people and get what they call
an "easy"  living until then land in the meshes of the law.   Children  with
these aspects should be given special training in self-restraint, thrift and
honesty, above all, religion, for they have a tendency to scorn and scoff at
religion,  but  perhaps a memory of a devout mother may help  to  keep  them
straight.

   VENUS  CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL SEXTILE OR TRINE TO JUPITER  is one of  the
best  signs  of  success  and  general  good fortune in life.  It favors the


[PAGE 295]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

accumulation of wealth and the enjoyment of all the luxuries of life.  It is
a  good indication of a successful and happy marriage,  social prestige  and
the  respect of all with whom the person comes in contact.   It  endows  him
with a jovial, optimistic, generous and large-hearted disposition, makes him
honorable to a degree, interested and active in philanthropic measures, lib-
eral  in  mind,  tolerant  of the views of  others  even  where  he  differs
radically,  fond of pleasure,  traveling, parties,  and capable of  enjoying
life to the fullest extend; he loves expensive and ultra-comfortable things,
a fine house, valuable books, pictures and other rich appointments.

   VENUS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER gives the same luxurious likings as
the  good  aspects  but limits the ability to satisfy  them;  although  such
people  make the most frantic efforts to present a fine front to  the  world
they are generally found out to he shams.  Their lack of business ability so
often  responsible  for failure and bankruptcy and they are very  liable  to
suffer  losses  through treachery of others.   Love and  marriage  also  are
sources of sorrow for those whom Venus and Jupiter are afflicting.  They are
apt  to be jilted before marriage or the marriage partner will prove  faith-
less  and  may  desert  them.  These  aspects also produce an amorous nature


[PAGE 296]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

likely to take liberties regardless of the laws of decency and make the per-
son faithless to marriage vows.

   MERCURY CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO JUPITER is one of the
finest assets in life for it gives a cheerful,  optimistic disposition  with
the  ability to always look upon the bright side of things and keep  up  the
spirits in the hours of adversity; the mind is broad,  versatile and able to
reason  correctly and to form a reliable judgment be  careful  deliberation;
these people never decide hastily;  they require time to think over what  is
presented to them, but once they have reached a conclusion, it will be found
incontrovertible.   They  are successful in law or literature and  much  re-
spected  for their honesty and sincerity.   These aspects  are  particularly
fortunate for people who travel for business or pleasure, for they will reap
both benefit and enjoyment from a migratory mode of life.  It will make them
"healthy,  wealthy and wise"  beyond the average, loved by everybody for the
vital vibration they radiate upon whomever they meet.

   MERCURY SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER gives a vacillating and  wavering
disposition  so that the person cannot make up his mind when more  than  one
course of action is open,  hence people with these aspects often lose  their
opportunities  through  procrastination  and  lack  of  judgment;  they must


[PAGE 297]                                    JUPITER, PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

therefore  often  be classed as failures.  They are liable  to  scandal  and
slander because of treacherous associates,  and should not ravel for it will
bring them loss and trouble; they should also be extremely careful in making
contracts or agreements to do or deliver certain things at a specified  time
for  they  will  probably be unable to fulfill  the  requirements  and  thus
trouble and loss will result.

   THE MOON PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO JUPITER gives an op-
timistic,  noble and generous disposition.  The open-hearted honesty,  fair-
ness  and  friendliness of people with these aspects make  them  universally
popular.   These aspects strengthen both the reasoning faculties and consti-
tution,  so that such people usually have a strong mind in a strong body and
hence a powerful personal magnetism which may be used to great advantage  in
healing  the sick.   They have lofty ideals and a fruitful imagination  with
the  power  of acquiring wealth which will grow greater if used  in  philan-
thropic enterprises of which these people are prone to dream.   This is  one
of the best aspects in the gamut and makes for general success in life  both
physically and spiritually.

   THE MOON SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER impairs the reasoning  faculties
and brings the person trouble through litigation,  lack  of fore-thought and


[PAGE 298]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

indecision or dishonesty.   People with these aspects are too fond of osten-
tation aid display, extravagant beyond their means, lavish in their expendi-
tures,  prone to take desperate chances in gambling or speculation to  reha-
bilitate their fortunes and doomed to loss, slander and sometimes bankruptcy
on that account.   These aspects are also bad for health in a woman's  horo-
scope especially; they indicate digestive and liver troubles.

   SATURN  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO JUPITER gives a strong character with a  deep
and  profoundly philosophical mind,  a benevolent disposition with a  strong
sense of justice and fair play.   All the virtues of Saturn and Jupiter  are
combined by these aspects and people in whose horoscope they are found  will
consequently  gain  the honor and esteem of the community  where  they  are.
Thus they will be looked upon as pillars of society and gain prosperity com-
mensurate with the environment in which they are placed,  for these  aspects
give sound financial judgment and the ability to grasp the opportunity  when
it is met.

   SATURN CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO JUPITER has the same beneficent  influ-
ence as the sextile or trine through not in as great a measure and if  Jupi-
ter  is weak by sign of otherwise afflicted the aspects will probably  count
for very little, bit in that case its effect upon the  arterial  circulation


[PAGE 299]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

will be obstructive, giving a tendency to sclerosis of the arteries the same
as the opposition or square.

   SATURN  SQUARE  OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER gives a  different,  vacillating
mind unable to form decisions,  always distrustful of others,  indolent  and
inclined  to  drift with the tide;  often a ward of society  either  in  the
poor-house or the prison,  for the character is basically dishonest.   These
aspects also give a tendency to arterio-sclerosis.

   MARS  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO JUPITER.   It is the nature of Jupiter  to  be
somewhat conservative and dignified,  but when blended with the fire of Mars
it  gives  enthusiasm and an ability to influence of others and  imbue  them
with  the same feelings.   It makes the nature noble,  sincere,  honest  and
straightforwarded.  This aspect is also good for the financial prosperity of
the person,  for both Mars and Jupiter when well-aspected give good  earning
ability and favor accumulation.  Jupiter is somewhat conservative in respect
to expenditures, Mars is too free, but where the Martian and Jupiterian ten-
dencies  are blended by a good aspect the result is an ideal,  generous  na-
ture,  neither too lavish not too conservative,  able to strike a happy  me-
dium.   These  people  have  much ingenuity  and  constructive  ability  and
whatever they do they put their whole heart in it.   Hence they are success-
ful in business, popular in society, fond of out-of-door sports and games.


[PAGE 300]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

They  love  to travel and gain much pleasure by so doing.   Mars  rules  the
haemoglobin in the blood which is so important a factor in health and vital-
ity,  therefore the good aspects of Jupiter and Mars increase the red  blood
corpuscles with the result that people with these aspects have an  abundance
of health, vitality, power and endurance.

   MARS PARALLEL OR CONJUNCTION JUPITER strengthens the constitution and in-
creases the vitality the same as the good aspects.   It also indicates  that
the person is able to earn much money and uses it freely and generously, but
the  mental  qualities are similar to those conferred by  the  bad  aspects:
sporty, swaggering, tricky, deceitful and untruthful, impulsive in judgment,
but to be depended upon,  and if the conjunction occurs in one of the watery
signs, especially in Pisces, the person will probably be a drunkard, through
this is not as certain as with the square or opposition.

   MARS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER is the signature of the gambler  and
if one of the planets is in a watery sign, especially in Pisces,  he will be
a drunkard also,  a tricky,  dishonest and disreputable character who always
acts through impulse.  With respect to health we find that these people suf-
fer  principally  from  blood  and liver complaints, the circulation is poor


[PAGE 301]                                 JUPITER THE PLANET OF BENEVOLENCE

and the blood is so rich that there is danger of apoplexy.

   URANUS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO JUPITER gives a broad,  humane disposition and
a tendency to delve into the occult arts and sciences.   It favors an  asso-
ciation with secret orders and gives promise of prosperity in life.   Such a
person is honest and sincere,  sociable, hospitable and likely to benefit  a
great deal from influential friends in official positions.   This  positions
also gives executive ability and success in connection with institutions  of
learning.

   URANUS  PARALLEL OR CONJUNCTION JUPITER gives similar indications to  the
good aspects but the influence is not quite so decided,  particularly if ei-
ther of the planets is weak by sign or otherwise afflicted.  In that case it
will  be found that the tendencies conferred are more like those of the  bad
aspects.

   URANUS  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER gives am impulsive nature  liable
to  act  in  a sudden or unexpected manner to one's  own  undoing;  loss  by
speculation,  lawsuits and impulsive extravagance are also  indicated,  many
changes both of occupations and residence, loss of friends and reputation.


[PAGE 302]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   NEPTUNE SEXTILE OR TRINE TO JUPITER gives an inspirational,  mystical na-
ture and success in an occupation connect with occult orders, that is to say
where the character is sufficiently developed is that Neptune can makes  his
influence felt,  for then this position brings out all the noblest and  most
spiritual  strength of both planets,  and occult experiences are not  infre-
quently the result.   During the sleeping hours these people are quite  con-
scious in the invisible worlds.

   NEPTUNE  PARALLEL  OR CONJUNCTION JUPITER gives an influence  similar  to
that of the good aspects when Neptune and Jupiter are not afflicted,  but if
they are in a weak sign and aspecting the other planets by square or opposi-
tion then the influence is similar to that one of the bad aspects of Jupiter
and Neptune.

   NEPTUNE SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO JUPITER indicates lack of control of  the
emotions.  The person is sensitive to the low psychic influences of the bor-
derland  between  the  seen  and  the unseen  worlds  but  they  are  of  an
awe-inspiring and disgusting type, hence apt to cause hysterical conditions,
such  as  involuntary trance and kindred disorders attendant  upon  negative
psychism.   From  a  material standpoint it gives danger  of  fraud  through
speculation  or large companies and dealing with predatory interests  should
therefore be avoided.


[PAGE 303]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

                                 CHAPTER XIV

                          MARS THE PLANET OF ACTION

   From  the Bible we learn that Jehovah was the Creator of mankind  for  we
find  His angels announcing the birth of various notable  personages.   Thus
the  conclusion is inevitable that He and they preside over  the  generative
function  and impart the quality of fertility which at that time was  looked
upon as a token of the favor of God while barrenness was indicated as a sign
of His displeasure.   This is in accordance with the Western Wisdom Teaching
which tells us that tin the earliest days when mankind was still in the mak-
ing Jehovah and His angels guided them to great temples at the times of year
when planetary conditions were propitious to generation,  and men born under
those harmonious conditions lived for hundreds of years without sickness  of
disease.   It is noticeable that wild animals which are still entirely under
the  guidance  of their group-spirits and mate only at certain  seasons  are
also immune from sickness.   Jehovah still retains control over the  fertil-
ization  of  the animals which are attuned to His lunar  vibrations  through
their   twenty-eight  pairs  of  spinal  nerves  that  correspond   to   the
twenty-eight days of the lunar  revolution  and  His  vehicle the Moon still


[PAGE 304]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

measures the period of gestation for men and beasts.

   But  the Bible also tells us of LUCIFER and his FALLEN ANGELS who  taught
humanity  to take the prerogative of creation into their own hands  and  in-
stilled into them the passion that has caused sorrow, sin and death, because
the  holy function of generation which was intended only for temporary  pur-
poses of propagation and which works so well under propitious planetary con-
ditions has been desecrated and made subservient to the lusts of humanity at
all times regardless of the stellar rays.   Yet it is a mistake to think  of
the Lucifer spirits as evil,  for under the sway of the angels humanity nei-
ther good nor evil and having no choice or prerogative, but since though the
martial  Lucifer spirits we have learned to know good and evil we  are  also
able to exercise of will power to shun the evil and choose the good, to flee
from  vice  and cultivate virtue, thereby placing  ourselves  in  harmonious
co-worker-ship with God and nature and unfolding our divine possibilities so
that we may become like our Father in Heaven.

   While Jehovah and His angels are thus working upon humanity from the Moon
the  Lucifer  spirits  who rebelled against His regime are  located  on  the
planet Mars and from them also we have received and are receiving many valu-
able  gifts,  chief among them FIRE and IRON.   It is well known that  every
LIVING body is warm, for the Ego cannot manifest in the  physical world save


[PAGE 305]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

through  heat,  or perhaps it should be said that heat is generated  in  the
manifestation of the Ego.   But without iron,  which exists in the blood  in
the  form of haemoglobin,  there could be no oxidation and  consequently  no
heat.   That  was  the  condition previous  to  the  fall,  so-called,  when
man-in-the-making was mindless.   But then the Lucifer spirits came and  in-
fused iron into the blood,  which made it possible for the Ego to draw  into
its vehicles and from that time the Ego became an INDWELLING spirit  capable
of evolving individuality.  Thus had it not been for the Lucifer spirits man
could  not have become man.   It is their fire and their iron that has  made
the world what it is today,  good and bad according to the use man has  made
of  it.   The solar force focused through the Moon imparts vitality and  the
faculty of growth but the rays of the Sun focused upon us by the martial Lu-
cifer  spirits give us dynamic power and are the source of all  activity  in
the world.

   Power may be latent for milleniums, as exemplified in coalbeds, which are
reservoirs  of solar force;  a furnace and engine are required to  transmute
and make it available as dynamic energy,  but,  once the sleeping giant  has
been  roused from latency to potency it knows no rest or peace till  it  has
expended the last ounce of its prodigious strength.   Under strict  control,
and carefully guided into channel of useful activity,  this Martian force is
the most valuable servant of mankind; the most powerful agent in the world's


[PAGE 306]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

work,  an incomparable boon to humanity.  But if it escapes control the ser-
vant quickly takes mastery,  its inimical power of destruction and  devasta-
tion is then as terrible as scourge as its beneficent use under guidance  is
an  inestimable  blessing.   It is as precious as it is  dangerous,  eternal
vigilance is the price of safety from its ravages,  but without it the world
would be wilderness.

   Mars,  as a focus for the latent solar life,  transmutes it into  desire,
passion and what we may call animal spirits.   It is a consuming fire,  more
dangerous than all the nitroglycerine every manufactured, but also more pre-
cious than any other blessing we can have or enjoy.

   The Hindoo preacher, nurtured in a land governed by Saturn, the planet of
obstruction,  says:  "Kill out desire."  He dreams away his days in destitu-
tion,  but as "temper"  conserves the edge of the steel that carves its  way
through all obstruction,  so the well-directed energetic desires of the mar-
tial Anglo-Saxson have wrought a marvelous transformation in the earth; they
have reared a civilization beyond all which preceded it, and through perhaps
brutal  in many respects,  there is promise in that also,  according to  the
proverb:   "The greater the sinner, the greater the saint."   Parents should
take a lesson from a book of nationals and refrain from applying the  Satur-
nine wet blanket to the fiery Mars spirit of children.   Saturn always  says
"don't,  don't;"  his  aim  is  to repress and obstruct.  A clear fire under


[PAGE 307]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

proper control is useful,  but death lurks in the smoke and noxious gases of
a smothered fire;  too many "don'ts"  smother legitimate ambition and  frus-
trate accomplishment; they may drive hapless victims into ways of evil,  for
the  dynamic energy of Mars must and will have an outlet,  so  beware.   The
worst  faults  of  Mars are impulsiveness and lack of  persistence,  but  he
breeds no hypocrites as does an afflicted Saturn.

   From  Mars  we receive a number of our highly-prized virtues as  well  as
some of our worst faults.  When well-aspected he gives a strong constitution
and physical endurance, a positive, independent and self-reliant nature, de-
termined and proud,  generous and energetic, resourceful and quick to learn,
especially when in Aries,  Leo, Scorpio or Capricorn, but when he is weak by
sign as in Taurus,  Cancer,  Libra or aspected by squares or oppositions  he
makes the person quick-tempered, obstinate and spiteful,  inclined to drunk-
enness and criminal acts, cruel and hard, a bully and braggart.

   People who have Mars prominent in their horoscopes are eminently  practi-
cal  and play an important part in the world's work.   They  are  especially
proficient in occupations where iron and fire are used for constructive pur-
poses or where sharp instruments are handled.  Soldiers, surgeons and butch-
ers, machine workers and iron founders, engineers and man in kindred occupa-
tions are of the martial nature.   They also excel in other positions  where
courage and intrepidity are necessary qualities.


[PAGE 308]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                          MARS IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

   MARS IN THE ASCENDANT, OR FIRST HOUSE, when well-aspected has a most ben-
eficial influence upon the constitution, particularly if he is in one of the
fiery signs,  Aries,  Leo or Sagittarius,  or in the sign of his  exaltation
Capricorn,  but  sometimes when a weak sign like Cancer is  rising  and  the
other planets are much afflicted Mars in the Ascendant may infuse sufficient
energy  into the body to tide it over the critical period of infancy.   This
position also gives energy, ambition, courage,  self-reliance and determina-
tion which are exceedingly helpful characteristics in winning the battle  of
life.   It indicates an enterprising and practical person who will  shun  no
effort  in order to succeed.   When Mars is afflicted in the First House  he
nevertheless  strengthens the constitution and gives muscular power and  en-
durance,  but he makes such persons rash,  impulsive,  headstrong and  fool-
hardy.  Thus they neglect the ordinary precautions to guard their health and
become subject to fevers and other inflammatory diseases, also liable to ac-
cidents and loss of blood by lesions of varying magnitude,  danger from fire
such as burns or scalds,  according to the nature of the afflicting  planet.
In  this respect the Sun is usually productive of fevers and  inflammations.
Jupiter  gives liability to broken bones or accident by railroad or  rolling
stock,  Uranus  and  Saturn  falls  and  bruises and Venus disease caused by


[PAGE 309]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

indulgence of the passional nature.

   MARS  IN  THE SECOND HOUSE when well-aspected makes the nature  free  and
generous in financial dealings with others.  The person has a splendid earn-
ing capacity and will make a financial success in any business or a  martial
nature involving the use of fire,  iron tools or machinery.   It is also  an
indication of money by marriage or legacy, but although the money comes fast
and easily, the person will not accumulate wealth as he is very generous and
fond  of comfort and pleasure.   When Mars is afflicted in the Second  House
money  will  come just as fast as under the good aspects at  times,  but  at
other  times  the bad aspects make the person outrageously  extravagant  and
inclined  to be reckless in financial ventures,  with the inevitable  result
that  heavy  losses are incurred and the person may find himself  without  a
cent in the world.   A competence may be made and spent several times during
life.  These people never give up, however, and when they have met financial
disaster  they immediately start to build up anew on the ruins of  the  old.
They are then usually successful for a time again,  but they can never learn
to be more careful and less extravagant, hence they are always liable to re-
peated financial shipwreck.


[PAGE 310]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   MARS  IN THE THIRD HOUSE when well-aspected makes the mind  keen,  bright
and alert, fond of argument, quick at repartee, ingenious, inventive and re-
sourceful,  with  plenty of initiative and constructive ability.   But  when
Mars  is  afflicted in the Third House it gives liability  to  accidents  on
short  journeys,  a quarrelsome nature specially liable to get into  trouble
with brothers,  sisters and neighbors.   These people are very critical  to-
wards  everybody  with  whom they come in contact  and  therefore  generally
feared and avoided when possible.

   MARS  IN THE FOURTH HOUSE when well-aspected gives a strong  constitution
which  is maintained unimpaired even in old age;  the digestive  faculty  is
particularly  good and consequently the health and strength are rugged.   It
makes the native exceedingly aggressive in his efforts to "feather his nest"
and accumulate property for old age and rainy day.  There is also likelihood
of a legacy from his parents.  This is a very fortunate position, especially
if Mars is in Aries,  Leo or Capricorn,  but if Mars is weak as in Cancer or
Pisces and afflicted by square or opposition, digestive troubles or dissipa-
tion will undermine the vitality and the person will become more quarrelsome
and disagreeable every day he lives.   He will be liable to accident by fire
in the home also to fevers and inflammatory  diseases.  People  with Mars in


[PAGE 311]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

this position should leave their native place as quickly as possible.   This
may in some measure relieve the trouble.

   MARS IN THE FIFTH HOUSE when well-aspected gives an ardent, demonstrative
love-nature.   It  makes the person fond of athletic exercises,  sports  and
muscular effort,  a clean, masterful man much admired by the opposite sex or
a woman who is a real "pal" to her male companion.  These people make excel-
lent disciplinarians and are much beloved by their pupils if placed in posi-
tions as teachers,  or better still as principals for they make much  better
leaders  than followers.   But when Mars is afflicted in the Fifth House  it
makes the person very fickle in his affections.   It is on with the new love
even  before he is through with the old,  an all-around flirt and  therefore
likely to get into a great deal of trouble.   Over-indulgence of the amorous
nature  is liable to sap the vitality and create dangerous  physical  condi-
tions.   In a woman's horoscope there is grave danger of death to a child in
the horoscope of either sex.   People with Mars afflicted in the Fifth House
are  also liable to loss through gambling and speculation in  stocks,  bonds
and securities.

   MARS  IN  THE  SIXTH HOUSE when well-aspected makes  a  quick,  energetic
worker who is likely to rise to prominent position in the employ  of someone


[PAGE 312]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

else, therefore the larger the firm in which he seeks employment the better.
But he should not attempt to start in business for himself,  for people with
Mars  in  the Sixth House always succeed better when in  the  employment  of
someone else.  This position also increases the vitality and should the per-
son  on  account of other planetary configurations in the  horoscope  become
subject  to disease the dynamic energy and recuperative power of  Mars  will
soon  burn and leave it in better health than before.   But a  liability  to
trouble and quarrels with other employees or employer.  Should the person be
in the position of employer himself he will always be at a variance with his
employees  and subject to loss by theft and dishonesty through  them.   They
will  waste  his goods and have no regard for his interests.   An  afflicted
Mars  in the Sixth House also gives a liability to fevers  and  inflammatory
diseases,  dangers of burns, scalds and gun-shots and accidents sustained in
the course of employment.

   MARS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE when well-aspected gives a capable, industrious
and aggressive marriage partner, untiring in the promotion of the welfare of
the family, a strong personality who is bound to rule but will do  so  in  a


[PAGE 313]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

kindly manner.   This applies to both sexes,  for when in a man's  horoscope
the marriage partner is indicated by Mars in the Seventh House she also will
be masculine and will want to take the reins of government in her own hands.
However,  as  Mars in the Seventh House gives a tendency to an  early  union
when the parties are both plastic they accommodate themselves to these  con-
ditions  more easily than if the marriage were consummated at a more  mature
age.  But if Mars is afflicted in the Seventh House it indicates an accident
or sudden death to the marriage partner who will be of a domineering,  quar-
relsome nature and if one of the watery signs, Cancer, Scorpio not Pisces is
on the cusp he will also be a drunkard and sex addict.   This latter applies
particularly  if Mars is afflicted in Scorpio.   Then he also brings on  in-
flammatory diseases of the genitals or rectum.

   MARS  IN  THE  EIGHTH HOUSE and well-aspected  brings  financial  benefit
through the marriage partner or by legacy.  In business it is also good  for
gain by partnerships,  lawsuits or similar Eighth House matters.   But  when
Mars  is afflicted in the Eighth House the financial conditions  grow  worse
after  marriage through the extravagance of the marriage partner.   Business
partnerships and litigation should also be avoided  for  they  are  sure  to


[PAGE 314]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

bring loss.  People with Mars in this position should not delay making their
will for the end usually comes very sudden and unexpectedly.

   MARS IN THE NINTH HOUSE well-aspected gives a liberal, broad and progres-
sive view upon all problems of life.  People with Mars in this position  are
likely  to take up some cause having for its object the social or  spiritual
upliftment of mankind in general and become very enthusiastic workers in the
particular cult which has aroused their sympathies.  They are fond of a rov-
ing  life and benefit by changing from one place to another,  especially  by
travel in foreign lands.  They have a clean, clear and alert mentality and a
taking  way or presenting their views to others.   Therefore they make  good
missionaries  in whatever line of propaganda they take up.   But if Mars  is
afflicted in the Ninth House he makes people bigoted and fanatical in  their
views,  regular ranters who disgust all whom they try to afflict with  their
ideas,  whether they are religious or atheistic.   People with an  afflicted
Mars  here should never travel,  but remain in their native place  for  they
will  always be in danger of accident on journeys and however much they  may
be disliked in their native place they will find a still worse reception  in
foreign parts.


                             --- END OF FILE ---


