[PAGE 315]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

   MARS  IN  THE TENTH HOUSE and well-aspected is one of the best  signs  of
success in life for it gives an ambitious, enthusiastic nature with an inex-
haustible fund of energy, so that no matter what obstacles are placed in his
way the person is bound to rise to the top.  It gives a masterful nature and
good executive ability so that the person is well-qualified to conduct busi-
ness and command others.   These people succeed best in Martian  occupations
where fire,  iron or sharp tools are used in a skilled manner,  as by  engi-
neers or machinists, tailors or surgeons, et cetera.  When Mars is afflicted
in the Tenth House it gives the same energy and ambition as the good aspects
but the person will then lack discrimination and overreach himself with  the
result that he will incur the enmity of other people who will accomplish his
downfall and bring him into disrepute in the community.   Thus the life will
be filled with strife, struggle and unhappiness until the person has learned
to hold himself in leash,  regard the rights of others and abandon his auto-
cratic attitude and self-assertion.   This position also gives liability  to
accident and slander.

   MARS  IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE makes people leaders in their particular  so-
cial set, enthusiastic in the pursuit of pleasure, brings friends among mar-
tial and athletic persons;  gives energy and enthusiasm for realizing hopes,


[PAGE 316]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

wishes and aspirations.   But if Mars in the Eleventh House is afflicted  it
makes  the person touchy and sensitive towards friends with  consequent  un-
popularity and he is liable to overreach himself in his keen desire to real-
ize his ambitions in life.

   MARS IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE when well-aspected may bring the person benefit
from things denoted by this house, prisons,  hospitals and charitable insti-
tutions if employed in an official capacity as warden or surgeon;  or as ad-
ministrator of an estate or in detective work.   But if Mars is afflicted in
the Twelfth House the person is liable to trouble,  sorrow and  self-undoing
all through life.   He will incur the enmity of other people and may be con-
fined in prison or an insane asylum.   If Cancer or Pisces is on the cusp of
the  Twelfth  House Mars will lead him to drunkenness and  dissipation.   If
Scorpio  is  on  the  cusp  the vitality  will  be  sapped  through  sex  or
self-abuse.   In any case Mars afflicted in the Twelfth House makes a social
outcast unless there are other redeeming features in the figure.

                          MARS IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

   MARS IN ARIES gives an energetic, enthusiastic nature, impulsive, aggres-
sive and impatient of restraint.   No matter what the obstacles in the  path
these people will attempt the seemingly impossible and often succeed through
sheer  audacity.  They  are  original,  resourceful,  have considerable  me-


[PAGE 317]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

chanical ability and the more venturesome an  undertaking  appears the  more
it appeals to them.  This position gives an abundance of vitality and a love
of sport and muscular exercise.   The person is just as enthusiastic in  his
enjoyment  of recreation and pleasure as he is in his work and on  that  ac-
count he gets a great deal out of life.   But if Mars is afflicted in  Aries
it  gives a violent temper and a liability to accidents,  burns,  scaldings,
fevers and inflammatory complaints.  The mind is also threatened.

   MARS  IN TAURUS and well-aspected is a good indication of an  early  mar-
riage.   It shows good earning power and a free,  generous disposition  with
regards to finances;  it gives an interior strength of an unconquerable  na-
ture  so that the person will always gain his ends by unflagging  determina-
tion and a quiet persistence that recognizes no defeat,  but presses on  to-
wards  the  goal that he has set for himself despite all obstacles.   It  is
also indication of money by legacy.   But if Mars is afflicted in Taurus  it
gives an exceedingly stubborn,  violent and vindictive nature.   Such people
will pursue their own way despite reason, argument or entreaty and if anyone
attempts  to  thwart them in their purposes they never forgive.   They  also
have good earning power but squander the money foolishly so  that  they  are


[PAGE 318]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

often in financial difficulties and if a legacy comes to them they are  more
likely  to lose it through legal trouble than not and they are sure also  to
have domestic trouble.

   MARS IN GEMINI when well-aspected gives a keen,  active and alert mental-
ity.  People with Mars in this position never beat about the bush.  They are
honest  and outspoken and say just what they mean perhaps at times a  little
too bluntly,  but at any rate they are not hypocrites.  They love to measure
their  wits  against others in debate and therefor this position  makes  for
success in law or literature.   They also succeed in the engineering profes-
sions for they are resourceful,  ingenious and mechanical,  apt at  learning
and  quick to grasp a problem or proposition.   But if Mars is afflicted  in
Gemini it gives a cynical,  sneering,  caustic and critical disposition  and
makes  these people feared and shunned on account of their disagreeable  na-
ture.   These  people are also vacillating and unable to  make  a  decision.
Thus they cannot be depended on to stand by their word or their promise  and
if  they keep an appointment once in a while it happens by  accident.   They
are always in trouble with brothers, sisters and neighbors and liable to ac-
cidents when traveling.   It also gives a predisposition to bronchitis,  in-
flammation of the lungs, pleurisy and pneumonia.


[PAGE 319]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

   MARS IN CANCER and well-aspected gives a bold,  independent and  fearless
nature  with a tendency to rebel against restraint,  a home-loving  disposi-
tion,  very industrious and ambitious to gather and protect all things which
make for comfort and luxury,  so that he is a good provider for the home  in
every respect.  But at the same time people with this aspect aim to exercise
unrestricted authority over everything and everybody within the home.   They
tolerate  no other authority there.   This position makes the temper  rather
uncertain  and gives a tendency and a desire for change of  occupation,  sot
that the person never really settles down to one line of endeavor but  takes
up a number of vocations and drops them suddenly.   If Mars is afflicted  in
Cancer it brings domestic troubles, frequent and violent scenes and quarrels
in  the home with a tendency to move frequently from one place  to  another;
inflammatory diseases of the stomach, and digestive ailments, also accidents
by fire in the home through recklessness or carelessness.

   MARS IN LEO and well-aspected gives an active, industrious and honest na-
ture,  fearless and independent in all dealings with others, a keen sense of
honor and responsibility, hence makes one eminently fitted to occupy a posi-
tion of trust either in a public or private concern.   These people are  en-
thusiastic and energetic either in work or play, lovers of sport and a  good


[PAGE 320]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

time  generally.   They are very ardent in their admiration of the  opposite
sex  and woo the object of their affections with an intensity  that  carries
all  before it,  overrides all obstacles and brings the matter to  a  speedy
consummation.  These people never beat about the bush but say what they mean
in  a manner that is often extremely embarrassing in its  directness.   They
are strong and forceful in their arguments either for or against that  which
they  believe or disbelieve and therefore they not infrequently  arouse  op-
position on the part of those who differ from them.   They are very venture-
some  and  often take a pride in risk either in the pursuit of  pleasure  or
business.   When Mars is afflicted in Leo it gives a fiery,  violent  temper
and  a liability to fever inflammatory diseases,  palpitation of the  heart,
hallucinations,  biliousness.  There is also danger of inordinate affection,
trouble  in courtship,  loss of children and loss through speculations.   An
afflicted  Mars in Leo gives the same daring as when well-aspected  but  the
danger of accident is greater because the person with the afflicted  planets
becomes foolhardy and reckless.

   MARS  IN VIRGO when well-aspected gives an ambitious nature and  a  quick
intellect,  able to grasp an idea and elaborate upon it.  It strengthens the
mental qualities and gives a scientific turn to the mind with an ability  to


[PAGE 321]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

apply this faculty either in research work or in business.   The people with
this  position  are  therefore energetic and enterprising  in  many  of  the
world's  industrial affairs.   There their shrewdness  and  quick-wittedness
brings them success and preferment.   This is a good position for people who
are  engaged  in  any of the industries connected with  the  sick,  such  as
nurses,  doctors, chemists, the science of sanitation and hygiene,  prepara-
tion of health-foods and kindred occupations.  If people with Mars in  Virgo
are themselves overtaken by disease this position gives them the ability  to
recuperate quickly and makes them less liable to become chronic invalids  as
so many other Virgo people do.

   When Mars is afflicted in Virgo it subjects the mind to worry and irrita-
bility,  with a tendency to brood over troubles in life which are mostly il-
lusory.   No  matter how or where such people are employed they  are  always
critical  toward  their fellow-employees and the employer  and  dissatisfied
with everything connected with their work.  They are also of a dishonest na-
ture and cannot be trusted in a position of responsibility.   This  position
also makes people over-indulgent of their appetites and subject to  intesti-
nal disorders.

   MARS IN LIBRA and well-aspected gives an ardent, demonstrative and loving
nature which is very greatly attracted to the opposite sex and therefore  it


[PAGE 322]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

inclines  to an early marriage.   It also gives an enthusiastic love of  art
and beauty in all their phases and it makes the person very popular with the
public or in societies of a social or religious nature.   This is an  excel-
lent position for a lawyer,  as it will bring much activity in this line and
it  is a good indication of general health.   But when Mars is afflicted  in
Libra  it makes the person very unpopular and subject to the opposition  and
criticism of the community;  danger of public scandal on account of unfaith-
fulness in sex relations, for Mars in Libra always produces a strong attrac-
tion  toward  the opposite sex and if he is afflicted there  the  nature  is
amorous  and fickles with the natural result that trouble arises by  playing
with the affections of others.

   MARS IN SCORPIO when well-aspected gives a keen,  sharp and forceful men-
tality, a rather blunt manner and an indifference to the finer sensibilities
of others, consequently these people often make themselves disliked at first
until  others get used to them and realize that they are not such  ogres  as
they seem.  They are very ingenious and mechanical, with indomitable courage
and  inexhaustible energy which carry them over all obstacles whatever  goal
they  set themselves.   In this respect they are very selfish and  ready  to
sacrifice  whatever stands in their way.   They make good  police  officers,
soldiers  and  surgeons  and  are  able  to  fill any other position where a


[PAGE 323]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

dominant  authority is required,  or skill with sharp tools.   In a  woman's
horoscope it shows that the husband has good earning capacity, but is rather
too free and generous with his means.   It also indicates the possibility of
a legacy.

   When  Mars  is afflicted in Scorpio it brings out the worse side  of  the
passional nature and leads the person into sex excesses or causes  addiction
to solitary vice that saps the vitality,  and unless corrected it is  liable
to bring the person to an early grave.   In a woman's horoscope it indicates
that the husband will squander his money on gratification of self, also that
parturition will be a dangerous event.   In either sex Mars in Scorpio indi-
cates a quarrelsome nature and a biting tongue.

   MARS IN SAGITTARIUS and well-aspected gives an argumentative  disposition
and  fondness  of debating on subjects of serious nature such as  law,  phi-
losophy and religion.   It makes the person candid and open in all his deal-
ings with others, full of enthusiasm and ambition, anxious to appear well in
the eyes of the community,  although he would scorn to cater to the ideas of
others  where they do not coincide with this ideas of probity  and  justice.
These  people make interesting and ideal entertainers,  especially in  later
life for they are fond of traveling and are keen observers,  hence they  al-
ways have a fund of interesting and instructive  information  which they are


[PAGE 324]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

both willing and anxious to impart to their hearers.   These people are also
fond  of  sports and out-door exercise,  in which they usually excel  and  a
well-aspected  Mars  in Sagittarius is an ideal position for a  lawyer.   It
makes  for much success in that direction by sharpening and  quickening  the
mental and oratorical faculties.

   When Mars is afflicted in Sagittarius he gives a sharp tongue and a quar-
relsome disposition and there is a dishonest streak in the nature, therefore
such  people  are often found generally disliked in the community  and  par-
ticularly in social circles, for they seem to be always at variance with the
ideas  and opinions of others and adopt a most supercilious attitude  toward
those  with whom they disagree.   These people are also liable to meet  with
accidents when they travel and to sustain a number of broken bones.

   MARS IN CAPRICORN when well-aspected adds much strength to the  character
for  it  gives an ambitious and enthusiastic disposition backed  by  an  in-
domitable courage and well-nigh inexhaustible energy together with a patient
persistence and perseverance that are bound to overcome all obstacles and in
the end reach the desired goal.  Therefore people with Mars in this position
are bound to rise in life,  particularly if Capricorn be placed in the Tenth
House.  It invites respect and esteem of the community so  that  people with


[PAGE 325]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

this  position  are often offered public appointments in addition  to  their
private  enterprises  and  they serve well in posts of honor  for  they  are
naturally  fitted to take great responsibilities and carry on  great  enter-
prises.   The wider their scope of action the better they like it,  for they
are superlatively efficient.

   When  Mars is afflicted in Capricorn there will be a similar ambition  to
do  great things but the person will be rash,  impulsive and  headstrong  so
that  he overreaches himself and takes upon himself more than he  can  carry
through.   He will also lack the persistence and perseverance  necessary  to
overcome  obstacles  and  as the disposition will  be  basically  dishonest,
through  he may rise on account of his enthusiasm and pretentious nature  to
some prominence he is certain to be shorn of his authority before very  long
and become an object of scorn and derision in the community.  There is noth-
ing worse than an afflicted Mars in Capricorn.  It also gives a liability to
accidents affecting the limbs and its reflex action on the part of the  body
ruled by the opposite sign,  viz., the stomach,  gives a tendency to gastric
troubles.   People with this affliction also have a hasty temper and a  vin-
dictive disposition.

   MARS IN AQUARIUS when well-aspected makes the person quick-witted and in-
tuitive, ingenious and original, enterprising and ambitious,  a  hard worker


[PAGE 326]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

for success in whatever line he chooses in life.  Hence he will gain friend-
ship  from  others who are able to help him realize his  hopes  and  wishes.
These people are also very mechanical and ingenious,  particularly in things
connected with the electrical science.   They also succeed well as managers,
officials  or workers in and for a philanthropic society or  public  utility
corporation.

   When  Mars is afflicted in Aquarius it makes the person too  independent,
bombastic and resentful of authority, blunt of speech and manner toward oth-
ers,  and resentful in the highest degree if he is not treated with what  he
considers  proper  respect and consideration,  Hence such people  over  very
difficult  to get along with and often quarrel with everybody  around  them.
There is a tendency to loss through gambling and speculation.   An afflicted
Mars  in  Aquarius also gives a tendency to trouble with  the  eyes  because
Aquarius governs the ethers;  and by reflex action the opposite sign Leo may
cause palpitation of the heart.

   MARS IN PISCES when well-aspected gives ability as a detective, warden of
a prison or surgeon in a hospital and in kindred positions where the  person
does not come in direct contact with the public, but exercises  authority in


[PAGE 327]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

an  obscure  manner.   It also gives a tendency toward secret  love  affairs
which the person is able to hide from the public eye.   But when Mars is af-
flicted  in  Pisces  the indulgence of clandestine  intercourse  will  bring
trouble into the life.   There is also liability to suffer from the attaches
of  secret enemies and to become enmeshed in the net of the law  and  suffer
imprisonment, or it may manifest as an inordinate love of strong drink which
will  then cause imprisonment and makes the person a ward of the  community.
Much  trouble and many misfortunes are indicated because the nature  is  un-
truthful.

                      MARS IN ASPECT WITH OTHER PLANETS

   THE SUN PARALLEL, CONJUNCTION, SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MARS.  The conjunction
gives a tendency to fever, especially if it occurs in Aries,  the sign which
governs the head, but it is curious that people with that configuration seem
also  to be able to endure a much higher temperature than others,  and  come
unscathed through such a siege of sickness as would ordinarily prove  fatal.
With  that exception these aspects produce a superabundance of vital  energy
which  assures their possessor of the most radiant health all through  life.
They  strengthen  the constitution and makes the person able to  endure  the
hardest tasks; they give him a dauntless determination and courage  to  face


[PAGE 328]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the greatest odds.  Given a plan to follow he may be trusted to overcome all
physical  obstacles for he has both executive and constructive  ability  to-
gether with an indomitable will which refuses to recognize defeat.  The dis-
position is frank and open but blunt and often brusque;  such people are too
intensely bent on what they want to do to waste time in politeness and  sua-
vity, therefore they brush the conventionalities  aside without  compunction
and are consequently not liked by people of too fine sensibilities, but they
are  men and women of action and the foremost factors in the  world's  work;
but for their energy and enterprise the world would move much more slowly.

   THE SUN SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MARS endows the person with an  abundance
of  energy,  the faculty of leadership,  but they are turned to purposes  of
deviltry and destruction;  the courage implanted by the good aspects becomes
foolhardiness and the person has a loud, overbearing,  swaggering manner and
is  ready to fight at the drop of a hat;  he is always in opposition to  the
constituted authority and ready to rebel wherever he sees a chance,  he  has
an  extremely fiery temper but holds not resentment.   On account  of  these
qualities he is universally disliked by both employees and his fellow  work-
ers,  always  in  hot  water  and never stays long in any place for he is an


[PAGE 329]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

agitator  and  trouble maker.   These aspects also dispose to  accidents  in
which the person may be maimed, to gunshot and knife-wounds,  also to scald-
ing, fevers, and inflammatory complaints, boils and eruptions.

   Aspects  to  the Sun and Mars are absolutely necessary to  give  zest  to
life; even adverse aspects are better than none, for where these planets are
unaspected  the person is usually listless, vapid and will never  amount  to
anything no matter how good the figure may be in other respects.

   VENUS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MARS will give an ambitious,  aspiring and  ad-
venturous nature,  amorous and extremely demonstrative in its affection and,
very fond of sports and pleasures.   It gives the person an abundance of en-
ergy and business acumen,  consequently he has a splendid earning  capacity,
but  no matter how much money he makes it just filters through his  fingers,
for he loves above all things to make a great outward show and display.  Be-
ing a free spender he is also very popular among his associates,  and  being
as  already  said of an amorous nature he marries either very early  or  his
marriage is a very sudden and hasty one.  These aspects are also indications
of money by marriage or legacy.


[PAGE 330]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   VENUS  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL MARS does not always operate in  the  same
manner, but these aspects are to be classed as good of bad according to cir-
cumstances and the matter to be judged.  For instance,  Mars conjunction Ve-
nus makes the person less blunt and domineering,  more kind and polite,  and
is therefore good in that respect, but the conjunction also strengthens  the
passional  nature,  especially if it occurs in Scorpio,  and in the  Twelfth
House  it often leads to self-abuse so that in those cases it  is  decidedly
bad.  Therefore students must exercise judgment before classifying these as-
pects.

   VENUS  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MARS gives a very voluptuous and  sensuous
disposition,  liable to gross excesses in the gratification of the  passions
which will spa the vitality.  It is likely to break down the health and con-
stitution,  leaving the person a wreck on the sea of life if it  is  allowed
free scope.   These people are altogether too generous, especially where the
opposite  sex is concerned.   They are very extravagant and on that  account
spend more than they can afford on themselves, besides what they squander on
their many AMOURS, so that no matter how much money they make, they are gen-
erally in financial difficulty,  and not infrequently they figure as  defen-
dants in the debtor's court.  If Mars or Venus is in Cancer,  Scorpio or Pi-
sces there is a tendency to  such  dissolute  and  dissipated living, such a


[PAGE 331]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

craving for low pleasures that,  if indulged,  it will drag the human  being
down below the level of animals.

   MERCURY SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MARS gives a keen,  sharp,  ingenious and re-
sourceful mentality.   It makes the person enthusiastic over any proposition
which  appeals to him and he has also the ability to enthuse others and  im-
press them with his views.  He is an indefatigable worker in any cause which
arouses  his sympathies,  but he is no visionary,  he is interested only  in
concrete matters.   These people love argument or debate,  and they have  an
inexhaustible fund of wit and good humor,  sometimes blended with a vein  of
sarcasm which always strikes it mark,  yet never viciously nor  maliciously.
They  also  have remarkable dexterity and are able to turn  their  hands  to
whatever  task is required and do it with a speed,  facility and  expedition
that are astonishing to say the least.  They cannot do anything slowly or by
halves; whatever they undertake must be dome with a rush, and they put their
whole  energy into it so that they may accomplish the task and do  it  well;
hence  these aspects give success in life,  in almost any line  of  endeavor
these people may select,  but probably most in literature or the  mechanical
arts.


[PAGE 332]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   MERCURY CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO MARS gives the same mental energy, en-
thusiasm  and dexterity as the definitely good aspects but whether they  are
used for constructive and good purposes or for destructive and evil  depends
upon the other aspects,  house position and sign which they occupy.   If the
configuration  occurs  in a sign where either or both are  strong  and  well
placed,  as Mars in Aries or Capricorn, or Mercury in Gemini or Virgo, or if
they  are fortified by good aspects from the Sun,  Venus and  Jupiter,  Mars
conjunction or parallel to Mercury will operate similarly to the sextile  or
trine as stated in the foregoing paragraph, which see;  but if Mars and Mer-
cury are in one of the watery signs, Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, or if either
or both are afflicted by Saturn, Uranus or Neptune,  the conjunction or par-
allel  of Mars and Mercury will give the same evil tendencies as the  square
or opposition which are defined in the next paragraph.

   MERCURY SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MARS makes people quick-witted, sharp and
alert,  quick-tempered,  impulsive and excitable, liable to jump at  conclu-
sions and act before they think with the inevitable result that they are al-
ways getting themselves or other people into trouble, hence they are danger-
ous associates.  They are born prevaricators and utterly incapable of making
an exact statement.  It is just as natural for them  to  color or exaggerate


[PAGE 333]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

their statements as it is to breathe.  They are vitriolic in their wrath and
their tongues are more poisonous than the bite of a rattlesnake,  hence they
are  either feared or hated by those who are unfortunate enough to be  bound
to them by environment;  all who can, shun them.   They are bullies who  are
bound either to rule or ruin wherever they are and they allow no obstacle to
stand  in their way which can be removed either by force or  slander.   They
are the acme of selfishness, swagger and consummate egotism.   The foregoing
tendencies may of course be modified by other aspects,  but if they are not,
such people are a menace to society.  If either Mars or Mercury is placed in
the  Sixth or Twelfth House or in any other position so that the bad  aspect
acts upon the health, there is a liability to nervous prostration, brain fe-
ver and insanity.

   THE  MOON SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MARS gives a wonderful vitality and  strong
physique  so that the person is able to withstand almost any  tendencies  to
ill-health,  which will be overcome by it.   The power of endurance  is  in-
creased and the person can survive hardships to which people ordinarily suc-
cumb.   It gives a resolute,  courageous, energetic and ambitious mind of  a
resourceful and eminently constructive turn.   It makes the person quick but
not precipitate in his decisions.  Thus he gains confidence  and  esteem  of


[PAGE 334]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

others  and earns considerable money,  but the nature is extremely free  and
generous so that money does not stay by such people--they spend it almost as
fast as they get it.

   THE  MOON CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO MARS may be either good or  bad  ac-
cording to the sex of the person and the department of life we are consider-
ing.   It strengthens the health and the vitality, particularly in the horo-
scope  of  a woman.   In the horoscope of a man it would indicate  a  robust
marriage  partner  of a domineering nature and with respect to the  mind  it
would make the person very impulsive,  particularly if placed in one of  the
common signs or in the Third or Ninth House.   It also gives a very bad tem-
per but not so bad as the square or opposition.   If Mars is in  conjunction
or  parallel  to the Moon in Scorpio it gives an abnormal sex  desire  which
will not be denied, particularly if Venus is there also.  In watery signs in
inclines  to drink,  and in any place it makes the person restless  and  un-
settled, for it is like mixing fire and water.

   THE  MOON  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MARS gives a very quick temper  and  a
tendency  to  hasty or impulsive expressions and acts that  may  cause  such
people a great deal of sorrow and trouble.  They resent rules or regulations
or any other measures that tend to curb their  desires  or the gratification


[PAGE 335]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

of their appetites in whatever direction.  But if they are in authority they
aver  domineering and exacting in their demands for instant  obedience  upon
the part of others,  not do they hesitate to use whatever physical force may
be  necessary to compel obedience if they thing they can do so  without  too
great danger to themselves.   Sometimes they will take desperate chances  to
satisfy their spite.   Having an improperly balanced mind they are foolhardy
in  their venturesomeness and upon occasion they will attempt to  do  things
which no one in his sane mind would try.   On account of the foregoing char-
acteristic such people make many enemies and cause a great deal of suffering
to others,  particularly among members of their immediate family who  cannot
very well get away from them.  If these aspects occur in watery signs,  par-
ticularly  with Mars or the Moon in Pisces the person is also an  inveterate
drunkard.   From the standpoint of health they give a tendency to  accidents
by  fire and water,  to fevers and acute inflammatory diseases,  wounds  and
gunshot, diseases of the genitals, too copious menses, danger in parturition
and indigestion.

   SATURN  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MARS gives a determined and energetic  nature
capable  of  intense and sustained action and of obtaining  unusual  results


[PAGE 336]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

thereby.   The  executive ability,  dominant forcefulness and  endurance  of
these people are remarkable and consequently they are constantly accomplish-
ing what others cannot achieve.   Hence they always rise to prominent  posi-
tions and are much esteemed on account of their ability, but they are seldom
liked,  for these aspects make the character cruel and hard.   They  give  a
strong physique and general good health.

   SATURN CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MARS are  throughly
bad  aspects indicating a selfish,  violent,  harsh and cruel nature,  quick
tempered and vindictive, absolutely dishonest,  untruthful and unscrupulous,
giving liability to public disgrace and imprisonment,  also to accident  and
violent death, and if one of the planets is essentially dignified or exalted
the evil influence is much enhanced.  It should also be remembered that such
serious  defects do not result from one aspect alone and if the  other  con-
figurations  in the horoscope are good the foregoing delineation  will  only
apply in a mild measure.

   JUPITER  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO MARS.   It is the nature of Jupiter  to  be
somewhat conservative and dignified,  but when blended with the fire of Mars
it  gives  an enthusiasm and an ability to influence others and  imbue  them
with  the same feelings.   It makes the nature noble,  sincere,  honest  and
straightforward.  This aspect is also good for the financial  prosperity  of


[PAGE 337]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

the  person for both Mars and Jupiter when well-aspected attract money,  but
they differ in regard to disbursement.   Jupiter is somewhat conservative in
that respect,  but where the Martian and Jupiterian qualities are blended by
a good aspect the result is an ideal,  generous nature,  neither too  lavish
nor  too conservative,  but able to strike the happy medium.   These  people
have  much ingenuity and constructive ability and whatever they do they  put
their  whole  heart  into it.   Hence they are successful  in  business  and
popular in society.  They are fond of out-door sports and games.   They love
to travel and gain much pleasure by so doing.  Mars rules the haemoglobin in
the  blood which is so important a factor in health and  vitality  therefore
the good aspects of Jupiter and Mars increase the red blood corpuscles  with
the result that these people have abundance of health,  vitality,  power and
endurance.

   JUPITER PARALLEL OR CONJUNCTION MARS strengthens the constitution and in-
creases the vitality the same as the good aspects.   It also indicates  that
the person is able to earn much money and uses it freely and generously, but
the mental qualities are similar to those conferred by the bad aspects.  The
person is tricky, deceitful, untruthful, impulsive in judgment and not to be
depended  upon.  If  the  conjunction  occurs  in  one  of the watery signs,


[PAGE 338]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

especially  in Pisces he will probably be a drunkard though this is  not  as
certain as with the square or opposition.   These people are generally  ple-
thoric and liable to apoplexy.

   JUPITER SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MARS is the signature of the gambler  and
if one of the planets is in a watery sign, especially in Pisces he will be a
drunkard  also,  a tricky,  dishonest and disreputable character who  always
acts through impulse.  With respect to health we find that these people suf-
fer principally from blood and liver complaints; the circulation is poor and
the blood is so rich that there is danger of apoplexy.

   URANUS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO MARS gives an energetic and ambitious disposi-
tion,  an original, ingenious, alert, intuitive mind which is resourceful in
the  highest  degree and able to cope with great difficulties  under  trying
circumstances.   Therefore people with these configurations are naturally of
an inventive turn of mind and successful in bringing their ideas to realiza-
tion.   Their  inventive genius expresses itself  usually  along  electrical
lines, aviation or other unusual directions for these aspects are one of the
marks  of the pioneer of the Aquarian age,  where science  and  intervention
will  reach  out  in  directions  that  are  now undreamed of even as possi-


[PAGE 339]                                        MARS, THE PLANET OF ACTION

bilities.  But while these people are dreamers of dreams they are also prac-
tical,  energetic  and  enterprising in a sufficient degree  to  make  their
dreams come true in the world.   They have a wide vision and a noble  nature
which rises over all petty distinctions of race,  creed or color and  recog-
nizes  in all human beings the divine spark which is the basis of  universal
brotherhood.  They may not be exactly religious in the orthodox sense of the
word,  but their ideas are truly cosmic,  hence they are often mistaken  for
visionaries by those who do not understand them.

   URANUS CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL, SQUARE, OR OPPOSITION TO MARS gives an er-
ratic  and eccentric disposition,  a violent temper of the worst nature,  an
unusually resentment of even the slightest restraint and gives the person  a
stubborn, headstrong and dogged determination to go ahead in any line of ac-
tion upon which he has decided no matter what the outcome.   He will  listed
to  neither  reason nor entreaty but follows his own course in  defiance  of
all.   People with these configurations often become anarchists of the  red-
dest type for they do not stop even at the shedding of blood if other testi-
monies in the figure concur.  They are cruel, hard and cold with out a spark
of true love through they may be in flamed with passion of the most  burning
intensity.  This is particularly the case when  Mars  is  square  Uranus and


[PAGE 340]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

either planet is placed in Taurus or Scorpio.   In a woman's horoscope  Mars
square Uranus usually leads to seduction no matter where placed,  but if  in
Taurus or Scorpio escape is almost impossible.  The other characteristics of
these  planets in these configurations work themselves out according to  the
signs  wherein they are placed so that their placement in Taurus or  Scorpio
work upon the sex which is governed by these signs.  When one of these plan-
ets  is in Scorpio if the person takes up the profession of surgery be  will
become very cruel and unfeeling,  ready to operate for the mere pleasure  of
causing pain and in consequence or in pursuit of this passion he will  prob-
ably  take up vivisection and develop an unusual ingenuity in torturing  his
victims.  With Mars or Uranus in Scorpio or Pisces he will be underhanded to
tricky though he may show a very different front to the public.  In Aries it
will  make a rattlebrain,  in Gemini and Virgo an unusually quick  mentality
but  quick in seeing only how to trick others,  in Sagittarius it will  make
the  person very materialistic,  atheistic or fanatical against  the  estab-
lished  religion or society;  thus the planets blend their nature with  each
individual sign.


   NEPTUNE PARALLEL, CONJUNCTION, SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO MARS, see Page
402.

   NEPTUNE SEXTILE OR TRINE MARS, see Page 402.


[PAGE 341]                                                 PLANETARY OCTAVES

                                 CHAPTER XV

                              PLANETARY OCTAVES

   Before considering the effect of Uranus and Neptune in the various  signs
and houses it may be expedient and illuminating to study their relations  to
Venus and Mercury which are their lower octaves.   That such a  relationship
exists  has been sensed by various astrological authors who  by  speculation
and  observation  have learned a great deal about these two  planets.   What
they  have brought out does great credit to their sagacity,  but not  having
had  the benefit of esoteric training it is not to be wondered at that  they
have  become confused on certain points which we shall now explain  so  that
students of the esoteric philosophy may see how these explanations  dovetail
into the general philosophy of the Western Wisdom School,  and thus bear out
the  statement  that Uranus is the higher octave of Venus  and  Neptune  the
higher octave of Mercury.

   The   Western   Wisdom   teaching  of   the   Rosicrucian   states   that
man-in-the-making was plant-like and bi-sexual during the Hyperborean  Epoch
and  thus able to create from himself without the necessity of  co-operation
with anyone else.  But at that time he was without  a  brain  and  unable to


[PAGE 342]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

think,  therefore in the Lemurian Epoch the angels directed one-half of  the
sex force upward to the part which is now the head and used it for the  for-
mation  of the brain and larynx.   The process is plainly traceable  in  the
antenatal development of the foetus which accounts for the intimate relation
between the sex organs,  the larynx and the brain,  observable in the change
of voice which takes place when the boy reaches puberty and the mental  dis-
ability  which  follows the unrestrained abuse of the  generative  function.
Thus it may be said that the sex function whereby new bodies are created  in
the physical world,  and become our physical children,  is closely connected
with  the  brain and larynx which man uses to conceive the children  of  his
brain and mind and give them vocal expression by the larynx.  It is a matter
of  common knowledge to astrologers that man is incited to perform the  gen-
erative  function of the begetting of physical children by the  love-ray  of
Venus; likewise that the ray of reason emanating from Mercury is responsible
for the begetting of the children of mind and their vocal expression by  the
larynx, so that both Mercury and Venus are creative in their functions,  one
upon the physical plane, the other upon the mental plane.

   Mercury is usually associated with reason and intelligence; to him is as-
cribed  rule over the cerebrospinal nervous system,  which is the medium  of
transmission  between  the embodied spirit and the world without.   Thus  as
Neptune signifies the sub- and superhuman intelligence who live and  move in


[PAGE 343]                                                 PLANETARY OCTAVES

the spiritual realms of the universe, but who work with and upon us, so Mer-
cury indicates the human intelligence focused upon the terrestrial, physical
world  wherein we live from birth to death.   Therefore it may be said  that
Neptune is the octave of Mercury, but there is a deeper sense.

   Reference  to a textbook of anatomy of physiology will show that  length-
wise fissures in the spinal cord divide it into three parts which enclose  a
hollow  tube.   Each of these columns is ruled by one of the Hierarchies  in
closest touch with us;  the lunar,  martial and mercurial;  one of the other
predominating,  according to the stage of evolution of the  individual.   In
the  spinal canal the rays of Neptune kindle the spinal spirit fire  whereby
the  human  spirit is enabled to pierce the veil of flesh  and  contact  the
worlds  beyond;  this vision is colored according to the column of the  cord
most actively excited.   In the childhood days of mankind the creative force
which  is now turned outwards to build ships,  houses,  and railways,  tele-
phones,  etc., was used inwardly to build the organs of our body, and as the
surrounding  physical  world  is photographed upon the  table  of  a  camera
obscura,  so the spiritual world was reflected in the spinal  canal.   There
man behold the first lunar God Jehovah,  whose Angels were his first tutors.
Later  a part of Angels,  who under the leadership of LUCIFER  had  rebelled
against Jehovah and who are now exiled on the planet Mars forced entrance to


[PAGE 344]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the spinal cord of man and incited him to abuse of the generative  function.
The spiritual inner vision of mankind faded when "their eyes were opened and
they saw they were naked;"  then they lost touch with the higher self,  they
saw only the person, and the docile creature of Jehovah was soon transformed
to a savage and a brute under the impulses of the Lucifer Spirits, the hier-
archy of Mars but by their promptings man has also learned to conquer  mate-
rial obstacles, build outwardly and become architect of the world.

   To counteract the unmitigated selfishness bred by the Martian Angels, and
to  make  mankind humane our Elder Brothers from Mercury,  human  like  our-
selves,  whose high state of evolution required the high vibration generated
and  prevailing in close proximity to the Sun,  were required to invest  the
spinal cord of man also,  and through their labors civilization has taken on
a different form, mankind is again beginning to look inwards.

   At the present time the right cerebral hemisphere is governed by Mercury,
and  the pineal gland,  its higher octave, is ruled by Neptune who also  has
dominion  over the spinal canal which is the avenue whereby one pole of  the
creative energy was originally turned upward for the building of the brain.

   The  ray of Neptune carries what occultist know as the Father  fire,  the
light and life of the Divine Spirit,  which expresses itself as will.   This
it focuses in the voluntary nervous system of the physical body  governed by


[PAGE 345]                                                 PLANETARY OCTAVES

by its lower octave Mercury which acting through the right brain  galvanizes
the  body  into  speech and action, expressing the will  of  the  indwelling
spirit.

   By this diversion of the creative energy the human being ceased,  as  al-
ready said,  to be a physical hermaphrodite,  a complete creative unit,  and
was  them  compelled  to  seek a mate in order  to  propagate  the  species,
Therefore  the  Son,  the Cosmic Christ, focused the love-ray  of  the  Life
Spirit upon Uranus, (ruling the pituitary body), who transmits it to the vi-
tal  body  where Venus,  the lower octave of Uranus gives it  expression  in
propagation and growth.

   Between the Divine Spirit and Life Spirit on the one hand and their coun-
terparts,  the physical and vital bodies,  on the other hand,  is the  Human
Spirit ruled by the Sun, and its counterpart, the desire body,  ruled by the
lesser light,  the Moon.   But this is debatable ground contested by Jupiter
and Mercury on the one side, Saturn and Mars being on the other.

   The  ray of Uranus is gradually forging a SECOND SPINAL CORD  by  drawing
the lower love-ray of Venus upward and transmuting it to altruism,  conquer-
ing  for it the dominion over the sympathetic segment of the present  spinal
cord and THE LEFT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE now ruled by the passionate  hierarchy
of Mars, the Lucifer Spirits.  This work has been completely accomplished by
the Adepts,  therefore they have no need to marry for each is now a complete
creative unit on both the spiritual and physical planes, having  turned  the


[PAGE 346]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

bi-polar creative force,  masculine and feminine,  upward through the double
spinal cord, illuminated and raised in potential energy by the spinal spirit
fires  of Neptune (Will) and Uranus (Love and Imagination).   This  creative
energy conceives in the twin hemispheres of the cerebrum,  ruled by Mars and
Mercury,  a vehicle fit for the expression of the spirit, which is then sent
out and objectified in the world BY THE SPOKEN CREATIVE WORD.

   This  is  the  secret of how the Adepts form a  new  body  without  going
through the womb,  and some day all humanity will attain to this standard of
perfection as SPIRITUAL HERMAPHRODITES; then we shall no longer be "a little
lower than the angels"  who create by similar methods but we shall be higher
than  they  are now for we shall have the reason and  intellect  which  they
lack, in addition to the complete creative power.



[PAGE 347]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

                                 CHAPTER XVI

                       URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

   The  love ray of Venus goes out to the mate and blood relations but by  a
good  aspect of Uranus it is raised beyond the realm of sex love  to  cosmic
proportions,  to love such as that which christ must have felt when he  wept
over Jerusalem and said that,  as a hen fathers it brood under its wing,  so
would he have loved to father them to his bosom.   The people who have  this
Uranian  love therefore become builders of society;  associated  with  every
good  and uplifting movement.   An adverse aspect of Uranus to Venus on  the
other  hand,  has the most degrading effect on the Venus  function,  for  it
leads to disregard of the laws and conventions of society and to  perversion
of the sacred creative function.

   Love is a much abused word,  and the emotion thus miscalled is usually so
tainted  with desire that it is Martian passion rather than  Venusian  love.
Coalition,  the keyword of Venus, suggests a most intimate union, a blending
of the very souls of two or more people who compose a family.  But ALTRUISM,
the  keyword of Uranus,  hints at such an all-embracing love as our  Saviour
felt.  Thus Uranus is the octave of Venus and anyone ready to enter the path


[PAGE 348]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

of preparation which leads to initiation must gradually learn to outgrow the
Venus  love which makes the immediate family all in all and begin to  culti-
vate the all-embracing Uranian altruism.

   This goal is high and those who aim so high often fall very low.  When we
essay to transcend the Venus love and cultivate the Uranian altruism we  are
thus in great danger,  and the most promising live are sometimes wrecked  by
the pernicious theory of soul-mates, which leads to clandestine love affairs
and perversion of the creative function.   But remember this--altruism  does
not  require return of the love bestowed upon others,  it has absolutely  no
concern with sex; it will not lessen the love for our family, but they being
nearest  to us will feel the increase of our love to a greater  degree  than
those  further away,  and unless our love brings forth such fruit it is  not
Uranian and will not further us upon the path of attainment.

   Seeing this is so,  we may readily understand that the great majority  of
humanity  cannot yet respond to the higher side of Uranus,  and  its  effect
upon the morals is therefore principally perversion of sex, clandestine love
affairs,  free love,  and disregard of conventionality; that is,  of course,
when  aspected by squares and oppositions.   Under such conditions it  makes
people unconventional and erratic,  rebellious at the least restraint,  very
independent and brusque in manner,  fond of pioneer work,  and investigation


[PAGE 349]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

of  unusual  things.   They  take  to  the  higher  mechanics,  electricity,
aviation,  and the like,  as a duck to water,  and are rather proud of their
attainments.   They find prominence in literature, science, philosophy,  and
especially  in the occult arts.   Uranus also gives a high grade of  musical
genius when configurated with Venus,  and if Uranus is well fortified in  by
position  and aspects it qualifies the person for leadership in  an  unusual
way.   It may also be said that the effects of the Uranian ray are very sud-
den and unexpected, whether for good or ill, it comes like a bolt out of the
blue, and as we respond most easily to its evil side, these effects are gen-
erally disastrous in nature.  When Uranus is on the Ascendant it adds length
to the body, so that the true Uranian are usually very tall.

                         URANUS IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

   URANUS IN THE FIRST HOUSE, even when well-aspected, makes the person very
odd  and eccentric in his habits,  so that he seems to delight in doing  ex-
actly the things that are against the conventions and customs,  just so that
he may appear odd.  He always finds an original way of doing things, differ-
ent from that of all other people, and is very self-satisfied in his opinion
that  his methods and ideas are better than any one else's.   If opposed  he
will defend his ideas to the last ditch,  if Uranus is in any way afflicted.
But when Uranus is well-aspected  in  the  First  House  there  is usually a


[PAGE 350]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

tolerance for the opinions of others. a spirit of give-and-take which avoids
the hard feelings generated by an afflicted Uranus.  Uranus on the Ascendant
also  makes the person very restless,  there are many sudden changes in  the
life and it will,  of course, depend upon the aspects prevailing at the time
whether the changes are for good or ill; but at any rate the call of the far
fields that look so green, are constantly before the mind's eye, sot hat the
Uranians  are always ready to be the pioneers in new undertakings or  a  new
cause,  just so that it is something that has not been tried before,  and so
offers a chance of risk and adventure.

   URANUS IN THE SECOND HOUSE, which governs finance,  naturally indicates a
restless and unsettled state of the finances of the person.   There will  be
many ups and down, and even though such a person may have other good aspects
that quality him to reason accurately concerning other matters,  it will  be
found  that  in  the financial department he is unable  to  protect  himself
against these sudden and unforeseen losses,  or gains.   For him there is no
such thing as a staid and solid investment,  for the most  unlooked-for-con-
ditions are likely to turn up and either net him an altogether  unlooked-for
increase  or else bring about an equally unaccountable loss,  all with  such


[PAGE 351]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

suddenness that there is no way of changing the matter.  Therefore it is ab-
solutely  impossible to give financial advice to such people,  for  even  if
they invested in a proposition as solid as the proverbial rock of Gibraltar,
it is doubtful if an earthquake would not unsettle it.

   URANUS IN THE THIRD HOUSE.  The Third House governs brothers and sisters,
neighbors,  education, and the mental or intellectual faculties.   Therefore
this position strengthens the intuitional abilities of the person, and gives
a certain predisposition towards what is commonly called psychic  faculties.
Uranus rules the ether,  hence the Third House position should make it  easy
for  the  person  to  cultivate spiritual sight,  especially  if  Uranus  is
well-aspected with the Sun, Moon, Venus or Mercury.   If Uranus is afflicted
in the Third House it indicates quarrels with neighbors,  brothers and  sis-
ters,  probably a breaking up of the family ties,  also that  the  education
will be interfered with through the erratic, self-willed conduct of the per-
son,  and  the  mind will be more or less unsettled,  and  changeable  as  a
weather-vane.   An afflicted Uranus in the Third House also  predisposes  to
accidents according to the nature of the afflicting planet, and particularly
when on short journeys.   These people, it may also be said,  are subject to
adventures  and strange happenings on their journeys such as do not  usually
befall other people.


[PAGE 352]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   URANUS IN THE FOURTH HOUSE.   People who have Uranus in the Fourth  House
ought to leave their place of birth as soon as possible for they cannot suc-
ceed there.   Both the parents and their whole neighborhood and  environment
will be antagonistic to them.  If it so happens that the parents are wealthy
they  will try to disinherit a child with Uranus in the Fourth House.   Even
if his Seventh and Eighth Houses be well fortified,  it is very doubtful  if
he would win in a contest for his share of the patrimony, as the public sen-
timent in his birthplace,  where such a suit would probably be tried,  would
be so much against him that he would lose in the end.   It would also be di-
sastrous  for  such a person to marry and establish a home of his  own,  for
peace,  harmony and contentment cannot exist where the spasmodic and erratic
Uranus is; that is to say, if it is afflicted.  If it is well-aspected it is
also  doubtful if such a person would ever attempt to establish a home,  for
his  sympathies would be too large and he would probably be identified  with
wider  activities--a  home or homes on a larger and  more  universal  scale.
This position also gives a very strong attraction towards occult science.

   URANUS IN THE FIFTH HOUSE.  The Fifth House rules educational activities,
publications, pleasures, courtship, and childbirth.  The  erratic  Uranus in


[PAGE 353]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

this House will in the first place give some very unconventional ideas  con-
cerning  the  intercourse and relation of the sexes and usually leads  to  a
clandestine  relationship contrary to the laws of the land.   A  woman  with
this condition in her horoscope is particularly prone to be taken  advantage
of even though she may not consciously be guilty of inviting undue advances.
It also makes parturition very difficult and if a child is brought to  birth
there  is  danger of loss by some sudden accident or  unusual  disease.   If
other influences in the horoscope give a leaning toward literature, a person
who  has Uranus in the Fifth House will be found to espouse  some  unconven-
tional cause, like socialism, anarchism, or kindred movements, and if Uranus
be afflicted by Saturn,  Mars,  or Neptune, the articles written by him,  or
the  paper published by him or with which he is connected will probably  in-
cite to bloodshed,  conspiracy,  and treachery,  which will bring the person
into  trouble  with  the  authorities.   If on the  other  hand,  Uranus  be
well-aspected  from the Fifth House in a horoscope indicating literary  ten-
dencies, the ideas advocated on account of this Uranian influence will prob-
ably be so Utopian,  idealistic, and altruistic that they will be beyond the
contemporaries of the person.   The love nature will also be of such a  high
idealistic strain that few if any will be able to respond, and this may also


[PAGE 354]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

mitigate  in a large measure the physical trouble indicated in  parturition.
A  person with a well-aspected Uranus in the Fifth House would  not  gamble,
and  if  one  who  has an afflicted Uranus  there  attempted  it,  he  would
naturally meet with loss,  no matter how careful he might seem to be.   With
respect  to  the pursuit of pleasure indulged in by these people,  we  shall
find them attracted to all new and strange things.   At the present time the
most  of them are probably longing for the day when it will be possible  for
them  to race in the clouds and drive aeroplanes more recklessly  than  they
are now driving automobiles.

   URANUS  IN THE SIXTH HOUSE.   The Sixth House governs the employment  and
service, also health and disease, therefore the erratic, spasmodic Uranus in
the  Sixth House predisposes to occupational diseases of a  strange  nature,
asphyxiation, mental and nervous disorders, such as epilepsy, and St.  Vitus
dance.   Even if Uranus is well-aspected,  these tendencies are not entirely
abrogated, at least, a person with Uranus in this position will be very ner-
vous  and highstrung under all conditions.   With respect to  employers  and
fellow-employees  this  position  makes the person  very  irritable;  he  is
brusque and abrupt to all connected with his work  and  therefore  liable to


[PAGE 355]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

trouble in employment or with employees.  This position gives a tendency to-
wards mediumship and undesirable phases of psychic experiences.   If  Uranus
is much afflicted there is also danger of obsession and insanity.

   URANUS IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE,  indicates a romantic,  sudden,  or ill-con-
sidered marriage.   Sometimes a common-law or other irregular form of  union
is consummated under this position.   Often the marriage partner is a person
never  thought of as a mate until the Uranian ray impels to marriage on  the
spur of th moment.

   People with Uranus in the Seventh house are usually unfortunate in  their
marriage relations,  because the marriage partner has the spasmodic,  incon-
stant,  independent Uranian nature,  chafes under the limitation and  cannot
remain true to any one person, but becomes inveigled into clandestine  rela-
tions  with the result that the marriage is often dissolved in  the  divorce
court and separation and estrangement follow; there is quite often a  public
scandal  in connection with these affairs,  or it may indicate the death  of
the marriage partner, all according to aspects.

   People  with Uranus in the Seventh House should never go to law,  for  no
matter  how just their cause may be they are most likely to be  thwarted  or
checkmated by some strange, unforseen or  sudden  circumstances whereby they


[PAGE 356]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

are apt to lose their case.   They should also avoid public office or  posi-
tion,  for  no matter how honest they may be themselves they are  likely  to
become involved in scandal and trouble on that account.  In short, this Sev-
enth House position of uranus is bad for dealings of any kind with the  pub-
lic or with law or partners.

   URANUS  IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE is a good omen,  for it indicates  that  when
life has been lived to its fullness the end will come suddenly and thus  the
person  will be spared the long and pitiful suffering so often  incident  to
the transition from the physical to the spiritual worlds.   But knowing this
it also behooves such people to have their house in readiness and order,  so
that when the end comes at 30 or 90 they have their affairs in shape.

   This  position  often brings an unexpected legacy  through  the  marriage
partner when well-aspected; but if Uranus is afflicted the person may become
involved  in  litigation on account of or in connection with the  estate  of
someone deceased.

   People  with Uranus in the Eighth House often show great interest in  oc-
cult subjects and become well versed in mystic lore.   It also gives a  pre-
disposition to dreams and psychic experience.


[PAGE 357]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

   URANUS IN THE NINTH HOUSE gives a progressive and independent mind, or an
original and inventive turn, sometimes amounting to genius; the intuition is
highly  developed and these people indulge in constructive dreams of such  a
nature  as  transform  the world in the course of  time--that  is,  provided
Uranus  is well-aspected.   Nevertheless they are generally looked  upon  as
cranks because their ideas are so Utopian and far in advance of our  present
stage that the ordinary human beings cannot grasp them.   On the other hand,
if  uranus is afflicted in the Ninth House,  particularly if by Mars,  these
people  become red anarchists and are not even averse to shedding  blood  in
order  to attain what they believe is the ideal;  they become  fanatical  in
whatever cause they espouse.

   This position of Uranus also indicates trouble in travel, particularly on
voyages, and danger of accidents.  It is one of the signs which make the ex-
plorer and pioneer in the discovery and development of new countries.

   URANUS  IN  THE TENTH HOUSE indicates an original,  eccentric  character,
with  a contempt for conventions,  who follows his own ideas  regardless  of
what other people say or think,  hence such people are often looked upon  as
black sheep and estranged from their kindred, but  this  they do not seem to


[PAGE 358]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

regard as a misfortune;  they are ready to offer up all,  even life  itself,
for  absolute freedom.   These characteristics also bring them  into  public
discredit  and disfavor.   The life is full of sudden changes for better  or
worse  according to the other planetary aspects prevailing.   If  Uranus  is
much afflicted these people never make a success in life, but meet with con-
tinual  sorrow,  trouble,  disappointment  and  reverses.   When  Uranus  is
well-aspected genius will come to the fore and is likely to find recognition
in some measure at least, probably by pioneer work of some kind.

   URANUS  IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE.   Uranus being lord of the Eleventh  Sign,
Aquarius,  is more at home in the Eleventh House than in any of the  others,
therefore he exerts a strong influence in bringing about strange and  eccen-
tric friendships with people of an original, creative,  or inventive turn of
mind  who will be a benefit to the person if Uranus is well-aspected.   This
also indicates that through such friendships the wishes,  hopes and  aspira-
tions will be promoted and reach a successful culmination.   If on the other
hand, Uranus is afflicted in this house, friends are apt to turn traitors or
at least use the person for their own selfish ends as far as possible.

   URANUS IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE indicates loss of reputation, exile,  and es-
trangement from one's kin and country,  much  sickness  at  various times of


[PAGE 359]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

life and confinement in hospitals,  if Uranus is without configuration  with
any  other planet or even if well aspected.   But if seriously afflicted  it
indicates confinement in prison at some period of the life,  or restraint in
a sanitarium on account of mental trouble, also much annoyance by the under-
handed action of others.  When well-aspected it brings success in connection
with  the  occult  arts or occult institutions,  also by  the  invention  of
chemical processes which remain secret with their discoverer instead of  be-
ing  protected by patent.   These people are haunted all through life  by  a
vague fear of impending disaster.

                         URANUS IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

   URANUS IN ARIES gives an original, independent nature, full of energy and
ambition,  ingenious,  resourceful and capable of coping with  difficulties,
especially those of a mechanical or electrical nature.   These people have a
very impulsive, abrupt and brusque manner which often arouses resentment and
opposition  in others even though no offense may have been  intended.   They
are  seldom satisfied to remain in one place,  but are fond of  changes  and
rove  about a great deal.   Changes of place and position are  often  forced
upon them because of the before-mentioned blunt way of speaking.


[PAGE 360]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   URANUS  IN  TAURUS  gives  a  very  intuitive  nature  but  stubborn  and
self-willed,  so that when these people have made up their minds nothing  in
the world will turn them,  but they cling to their purpose or idea with  the
quiet determination and persistence which neither persuasion nor threats can
alter.  If Uranus is afflicted they are suspicious and jealous, also subject
to very sudden and unexpected reverses in financial affairs.   But if Uranus
is well-aspected the opposite may be judged,  and comfortable financial cir-
cumstances may be looked for.

   URANUS IN GEMINI gives a highly original, intuitive and versatile nature,
fond of scientific pursuits in general, but particularly those studies which
have to do with electricity, aviation,  or other similar out-of-the-way sub-
jects.   These people are broad-minded and thoroughly progressive,  pioneers
in all things new and modern.  Among other things they generally have an in-
clination  for the study of occultism and astrology.   They are  well  liked
among  brothers,  sisters,  and neighbors.  All  this  providing  Uranus  is
well-aspected;  but  if Uranus is afflicted the mind becomes  eccentric  and
full of vagaries which make the person a nuisance and a crank,  disliked  by
everybody,  particularly brothers, sisters and neighbors.   This also brings
trouble and liability to accident in the course of short journeys.


[PAGE 361]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

   URANUS IN CANCER.   Cancer is a psychic sign and when Uranus is there  it
indicates that the person is a sensitive,  attuned to the psychic vibrations
and capable of cultivating these powers, but whether for good or ill depends
upon the aspects.  If Uranus is afflicted there is a tendency to nervous in-
digestion for Cancer rules the stomach, and if this is not attended to seri-
ous stomach trouble may be expected.  These people are liable to  separation
from their families, though usually much against their will, but as they are
generally of a very uncertain temper, irritable and impatient, they are usu-
ally to blame for this condition and are only getting their just desserts.

   URANUS IN LEO gives a very determined nature, rebellious and impatient of
restraint  or contradiction,  with strong likes and dislikes,  and an  utter
disregard  of the conventions where the passional nature is  involved.   The
personality is strong,  forceful and self-assertive,  therefore these people
often incur the displeasure of others and create much opposition.   They are
very inconstant in affairs of the heart--"on with the new love" before it is
"off with the old."   In a woman's horoscope an afflicted Uranus shows  dif-
ficulty in childbirth, perhaps the death of a child by accident or in a sud-
den, unexpected manner, also a strong tendency  towards  palpitation  of the


[PAGE 362]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

heart.   When Uranus is well-aspected in Leo both courtship and domestic af-
fairs run much more smoothly and it indicates original and inventive genius,
particularly along educational or journalistic lines, also for entertainment
and amusement of the public and gain thereby.

   URANUS IN VIRGO,  when well-aspected gives a keen,  original,  scientific
and mechanical mind,  a strong and well developed intuitional faculty and  a
keen business bent which will make for success in life,  and financial  gain
by the employment of others.

   But if Uranus is afflicted in Virgo, the person is apt to become  subject
to  strange ailments,  a hypochondriac of a fractious and irritable turn  of
mind,  a burden to himself and those who have to be around him.   This posi-
tion is also full of disappointment in the aims and ambitions of life, espe-
cially  because of limitations in the employment or in dealing with  employ-
ees, which the person seems unable to overcome.

   URANUS IN LIBRA,  when well-aspected gives literary and artistic  ability
of an unusual and original nature where the person follows independent lines
of endeavor and expression, often in connection with occultism.   This posi-
tion also gives a keen  intuition  and  an  attractive  personality, a vivid


[PAGE 363]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

imagination.   It signifies partnership,  union, or marriage to someone  who
will be of a Uranian character and of much benefit to the person.

   But when ill-placed or afflicted, Uranus in Libra brings sorrow, trouble,
domestic difficulty and death of the marriage partner by a sudden or strange
ailment or accident.   Or perhaps the union may be dissolved in the  divorce
court,  for people with the temperament described by an afflicted Uranus  in
Libra simply cannot remain true to one person.  This position also indicates
trouble  with the public or the authorities on account of  eccentric,  anar-
chistic, or socialistic activity.

   URANUS IN SCORPIO, when well-aspected gives the person a forceful and de-
termined  will,  bound to overcome all obstacles and achieve that  which  he
sets  out to accomplish by persistence,  perseverance and dogged  determina-
tion;  the mind is sharp, shrewd and secretive,  capable of grasping details
and concentrating deeply upon whatever problem may be in hand.   There is an
originality  and mechanical ability amounting to genius and a love for  sci-
ence, both occult and physical.

   But  when ill-aspected,  Uranus in Scorpio lays the person liable to  ac-
cidents  and even assassination or sudden death by explosions,  electricity,
aeroplanes or kindred unusual agencies.  It also gives a tendency to trouble


[PAGE 364]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

with the genitals on account of unbridled abuse of the sacred creative func-
tion, self-abuse or perversion.

   URANUS  IN SAGITTARIUS gives a very strong intuitive faculty with a  ten-
dency to dreams, visions, and a very vivid imagination.   This position also
gives a strong inclination towards an out-of-the-ordinary belief,  including
the theory and practice of the occult arts.   When well-aspected this  posi-
tion  gives a strong grasp of the religious and educational problems of  the
day,  with a philanthropic desire to work for the upliftment of humanity,  a
desire to travel for the educational advantages thereby to be obtained,  and
success  in gaining these points under favorable aspects in  the  progressed
horoscope.

   When afflicted,  Uranus in Sagittarius gives a very eccentric and erratic
mentality, particularly with respect to law and religion.  There is a rebel-
lion  against the social condition which often brings trouble with  the  au-
thorities, also a desire to force one-sided views upon the world despite all
protests  and at all risk, characteristics which eventually bring  discredit
and disfavor.

   URANUS IN CAPRICORN, when well-aspected gives an ambitious and enterpris-
ing disposition,  a serious,  persevering nature, and an acute sense of  re-
sponsibility, with original ideas of business that bring success, especially
if some line is selected that is connected  with  the  electrical  or aerial


[PAGE 365]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

arts.

   If  Uranus  is  afflicted  it  gives  an  erratic  and  eccentric   mind,
self-willed and stubborn,  bound to either rule or ruin,  quarrelsome and at
odds with society in general and relatives in particular.   Hence this posi-
tion gives a great deal of sorrow and trouble in life,  frequently involving
sudden changes of employment and environment.

   URANUS  IN AQUARIUS,  when well-aspected is at its very best,  for he  is
ruler of this sign and therefore in harmony with its vibrations.  Hence this
position strengthens the intuition and originality, and directs the energies
into  humanitarian  lines of endeavor,  unselfish devotion to the  cause  of
friendship,  and  a sincere desire to help all who are  in  trouble.   These
people make many friends and generally realize their hopes, wishes,  and am-
bitions  because they are of such an unselfish nature that they desire  what
is  good for humanity at large rather than that which is for personal  gain.
This  position also gives considerable mechanical ability,  originality  and
inventive genius.

   But if Uranus is afflicted in the sign Aquarius, though the ambitions may
be  as  strong and sometimes as good, and as pure as  with  a  well-aspected
Uranus,  they  will  be  of  such an erratic nature that it is impossible to


[PAGE 366]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

realize  them,  and  they  bill bring trouble  with  friends,  or  pretended
friends, who will seek to use the person for their own selfish ends, causing
much sorrow and disappointment.

   URANUS IN PISCES,  when well-aspected indicates a love of the occult arts
and  ability for development along these lines.   It brings friends and  as-
sociations  which favor these studies.   But when ill aspected it  leads  to
mediumship,  obsession,  and even insanity, if this tendency to  intercourse
with  spirits is followed to its conclusion.   This position makes the  mind
flighty,  erratic,  and the person will be subject to unexpected misfortune,
scandal,  or suicide.   All through life, even when fortune smiles  and  the
skies  are clear to all outward appearance,  these people are haunted  by  a
vague fear of impending disaster.

ASPECTS OF URANUS TO THE OTHER PLANETS

   THE  SUN SEXTILE OR TRINE TO URANUS makes the person original,  inventive
and independent in his manner of conduct and personal appearance.   With re-
spect to food and certain mannerisms,  he is what people call eccentric  and
conspicuous,  yet not offensively so,  given to pursuits and  studies  which
people consider "queer" such  as occultism and astrology.  But he also loves


[PAGE 367]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

delving into the unknown realms after nature's secrets concerning  electric-
ity  and often becomes a successful inventor if other aspects give  the  me-
chanical  ability to work his schemes out.   Uranus rules the ether and  now
that we are nearing the Aquarian Age his vibrations will be felt in increas-
ing measure,  bringing to our ken methods of using nature's finer forces and
the  people with Sun sextile or trine Uranus will be the media  who  attract
and interpret them for us as the aerials and receivers in a wireless station
collect and transcribe the messages carried by the ether waves to which they
are  attuned.   These people often rise in life through  the  friendship  of
someone above them in the social scale.  They are of a very high-strung tem-
perament but have themselves well under control,  and rarely show temper  or
anger.  They are also out-and-out idealists.

   THE SUN PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS makes the
person very high-strung,  nervous, of uncontrolled emotions and ready to fly
into hysteria on any or no provocation.  It predisposes to nervous disorders
such as St. Vitus dance, epilepsy and lack of coordination.  It makes people
impulsive,  unreliable,  and lacking in regard  for  the  conventionalities,
highly impatient of any restraint  upon  their  liberty and committed to the


[PAGE 368]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

theory of affinities, soul-mates and free love, hence these people are unde-
sirable  marriage  partners and likely to figure in divorce  proceedings  or
scandals  of an even worse nature.   There is also danger of trouble on  ac-
count  of connection with anarchistic plots where the inventive faculty  may
find scope in the construction of explosives and infernal machines.   Unless
these aspects are modified by other configurations such people are among the
most  dangerous to society.   They are liable to accidents from  lightening,
electricity and all through life they meet disappointment from the most  un-
expected quarters.

   VENUS  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO URANUS makes the person  mentally  alert,  or
quick intuitive perception and exceedingly magnetic,  especially to the  op-
posite sex; and it also attracts hosts of friends who will be of benefit and
assistance to him.  These aspects give love of art, music and poetry and are
a  favorable  indication of a happy marriage, often at a very early  age  or
suddenly consummated.   The good aspects between Venus and Uranus also some-
times  bring to the subject love of a platonic nature which then acts as  an
inspiration in the life.

   VENUS CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO URANUS.  As in the case of Mars conjunc-
tion to Venus, so also in the case of Uranus conjunction to Venus,  there is
a doubt as to whether this aspect should be classed  as  good or evil.  This


[PAGE 369]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

must be settled in the individual horoscope where it occurs, for it may work
either way,  depending upon the other planetary configurations and the  stu-
dent  will therefore have to use his judgment as to how he classes  it.   If
Venus is otherwise afflicted in the horoscope, for instance, the conjunction
or  parallel  will further accentuate her evil qualities and  act  like  the
square  or opposition,  but if she is well placed or aspected,  Uranus  will
bring out the nobler side, the same as the sextile or trine.

   VENUS  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS.   The square or opposition  always
brings trouble through the sex relation--quarrels, divorces, public scandals
through  clandestine intercourse and kindred irregularities,  with  loss  of
friends,  prestige and popularity, exile from home and family and sudden fi-
nancial losses through unexpected or unforseen happenings.   There is a gen-
eral lack of balance, an erratic personality.

   MERCURY SEXTILE OR TRINE TO URANUS gives an original, independent and ec-
centric mind impatient of the fetters of fashion,  tradition and convention.
Such a person is strenuous in his efforts to hew a path for himself in  com-
plete liberty.   Therefore this is the hall-mark of pioneers in thought  and
invention,  the  sign  of  genius.  Their  ideas  and ideals are exceedingly


[PAGE 370]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

lofty,  progressive and inspiring, in fact too much so in the opinion of the
average  man or woman who looks upon their actions and vagaries as the  out-
come  of a diseased mind.   Nevertheless they have plenty of friends on  ac-
count of their kindly and sympathetic nature.   These aspects are good for a
literary or scientific pursuit, also for invention, particularly those which
have to do with air or electricity.

   MERCURY PARALLEL OR CONJUNCTION WITH URANUS.  If Mercury is otherwise af-
flicted  the  conjunction and parallel are to be judged as bad  aspects  and
read accordingly,  but if Mercury is otherwise well placed and aspected  the
delineation given for the sextile and trine will apply.

   MERCURY SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS.   Mercury in square or opposition
to Uranus is the hall-mark of the true crank or anarchist with extreme ideas
to tear down the social structure and undertake a radical reform without the
ability to build up something better.   People with these configurations are
given to ranting and raving in public and their language is usually as cruel
as  the measures they advocate.   Whatever ability they possess  is  usually
turned to an erratic purpose and therefore they are ostracised and  disliked
wherever  they go.   They are often forced to make sudden changes to  escape
the consequences of their erratic conduct.


[PAGE 371]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

   THE MOON SEXTILE OR TRINE TO URANUS gives great originality and  indepen-
dence  to the mind which is quick, intuitive and very vivid in its  imagina-
tion,  hence the person has inventive ability; he is attracted to the occult
arts and is endowed with hypnotic or magnetic powers,  also the  intuitional
ability to study and practice astrology.  If electricity is adopted as a vo-
cation  the person will make a success of it.   These aspects also give  the
person a peculiar fascination for the opposite sex and are likely to lead to
a clandestine love affair or an unconventional union.

   THE MOON CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO URANUS gives mental and psychic  ten-
dencies similar to those of the good aspects and also the same liability  to
irregular  love-affairs,  but these tendencies are not so pronounced  and  a
clandestine  love-affair generated under the conjunction of Uranus  and  the
Moon may have distinctly disastrous results similar to those mentioned under
the bad aspects.   If the conjunction occurs in Cancer it indicates  nervous
indigestion; in Leo it inclines to palpitation of the heart, interferes with
the rhythm of the heartbeat and gives a spasmodic action which will probably
prove fatal when it has run its course;  in Scorpio it inclines to perverted
practices;  in Sagittarius the reflex action would be felt in the lungs  and
similarly with the other signs.


[PAGE 372]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   THE  MOON  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS makes the  person  erratic  and
touchy to a degree,  walking powder magazine ready to explode at any moment,
overbearing,  conceited and intolerant,  shunned by all who can possibly get
out of his way.   If such people are employers nobody can work for them  and
if they are employees nobody will have them.  They never remain very long in
any  place,  but  are either discharged or give up  their  position  on  the
slightest provocation.   People with these aspects are also attracted by the
occult  arts but they never make a success at them because of their  erratic
mentality.   Like the other aspects of Uranus and the Moon,  the square  and
opposition also indicate a clandestine attachment either on the part of  the
person or the marriage partner.   If Uranus occurs in the Seventh House of a
man's  horoscope it proves the wife untrue and a public scandal and  divorce
will eventually ensue.   The bad aspects of the Sun and Uranus give  similar
indications in the horoscope of a woman.

   SATURN SEXTILE OR TRINE URANUS is fortunate for a public career in an of-
ficial capacity for it gives ambition and determination with ability to con-
centrate upon the work in hand and to exercise authority,  plan and  system-
atize.  It strengthens the intuition so  that such people are guided by keen


[PAGE 373]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

interior  insight when new and important steps have to be  taken,  therefore
such  people are in demand and find positions with large corporations  where
they win their way through sheer ability.   The mind is both mechanical  and
ingenious,  hence this position often denotes the successful inventor,  par-
ticularly  along  the lines of electricity,  aerial navigation  and  kindred
pioneer lines.

   SATURN  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO URANUS has an influence like the  good
aspects  if the planets are unafflicted,  elevated,  in angles,  essentially
dignified or exalted, as Saturn in Libra and Capricorn or Uranus in Aquarius
or Scorpio, but if the conjunction occurs in signs where either of the plan-
ets is weak or afflicted, like Saturn in Aries, Cancer or Leo,  then the in-
fluence  will be detrimental and should be judged the same as the square  or
opposition.

   SATURN  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS gives an unscrupulous nature  with
an extremely violent temper.  The outbursts are as sudden as a bolt from the
blue and exhaust the person completely.  These people are very eccentric and
look  at everything from a peculiar angle--treacherous,  idle and  indolent,
malicious and altogether dangerous to the community.  These aspects also in-
dicate chronic or incurable diseases according to the signs wherein they are
placed, but as often said, if the other  indications  in  the  horoscope are


[PAGE 374]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

good  the influence of a single aspect will not bring out such evil  charac-
teristics  and therefore the whole horoscope is to be  carefully  considered
before  judging  the  influences  enumerated, for  they  may  be  materially
minimized by other favorable indications in the horoscope.

   JUPITER  SEXTILE  OR  TRINE TO URANUS gives  a  strong,  independent  and
positive personality with an ingenious, inventive and original turn of mind.
Whatever he undertakes he will carry to a conclusion or die in the  attempt.
This  position also gives a broad, humane and benevolent disposition  and  a
tendency to delve into the occult arts and sciences.   It favors association
with secret orders and gives promise of prosperity in life.   Such a  person
is  honest  and sincere,  sociable,  hospitable and friendly to  all,  hence
likely to benefit a great deal from influential friends in an official posi-
tion.   This position also gives executive ability and success in connection
with institutions of learning.

   JUPITER  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO URANUS gives similar  indications  to
the good aspects but the influence is not quite so decided,  particularly if
either of the planets is weak by sign or otherwise afflicted.   In that case
it  will be found that the tendencies conferred are more like those  of  the
bad aspects.


[PAGE 375]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

   JUPITER  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS gives an impulsive nature  liable
to act in a sudden or impulsive nature liable to act in a sudden  impulsive,
erratic or unexpected manner to his own undoing.  Loss by speculation,  law-
suits  and impulsive extravagance are also indicated,  many changes both  of
occupation and residence, loss of friends and reputation.   It signifies one
of an ostentatious nature given to sham and camouflage and subterfuge,  gen-
erally disliked for his insincerity and double dealings;  a confidence  man,
bunko man or cheap gambler.

   MARS SEXTILE OR TRINE TO URANUS gives an energetic and ambitious disposi-
tion,  an original, ingenious, alert, intuitive mind which in resourceful in
the  highest  degree and able to cope with great difficulties  under  trying
circumstances.   Thus people with these configurations are naturally  of  an
inventive  turn of mind and successful in bringing their ideas  to  realiza-
tion.   Their  inventive genius usually expresses  itself  along  electrical
lines,  aviation,  or in other unusual directions, for these aspects are one
of  the marks of the pioneer of the Aquarian Age,  where science and  inven-
tions  will reach out in directions that are now entirely undreamed of  even
as  possibilities.   But while these people are dreamers of dreams they  are
also  practical,  energetic and enterprising in a sufficient degree to  make
their dreams come true in the world.  They have  a  wide  vision and a noble


[PAGE 376]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

nature which rises over all petty distinctions of race,  creed or color  and
recognizes  in all human beings the divine spark which is the basis of  uni-
versal brotherhood.  They may not be exactly religious in the orthodox sense
of the word but their ideas are truly cosmic,  hence they are often mistaken
for visionaries by those who do not understand them.

   MARS CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS gives an er-
ratic  and eccentric disposition,  a violent temper of the worst nature,  an
unusual  resentment of even the slightest restraint and gives the  person  a
stubborn, headstrong and dogged determination to go ahead in any line of ac-
tion upon which he has decided no matter what the outcome.   He will  listen
to  neither  reason nor entreaty but follows his own course in  defiance  of
all.   People with these configurations very often become anarchists of  the
reddest  type for they do not even stop at the shedding of blood,  if  other
testimonies in the figure concur.  they are cruel, hard and cold,  without a
spark  of  true love though they may be inflamed with passion  of  the  most
burning intensity.  This is particularly the case when Mars is square Uranus
and  either planet is placed in Taurus or Scorpio.   In a woman's  horoscope
Uranus  square  Mars  usually  leads  to  seduction no matter where they are


[PAGE 377]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

placed,  but if in Taurus or Scorpio escape is almost impossible.  The other
characteristics of these planets in these configurations work themselves out
according  to the signs wherein they are placed so that their  placement  in
Taurus or Scorpio works upon the sex which is governed by these signs.  When
one of these planets is in Scorpio, if the person takes up the profession of
surgery  he will become very cruel and unfeeling,  ready to operate for  the
mere pleasure of causing pain and in consequence or in pursuit of this  pas-
sion he will probably take up vivisection and develop and unusual  ingenuity
in torturing his victims.   With Uranus or Mars in Scorpio or Pisces he will
be  underhanded or tricky though he may show a very different front  to  the
public.   In Aries it will make a rattlebrain, in Gemini and Virgo an unusu-
ally quick mentality but quick in seeing only how to trick others.   In Sag-
ittarius it will make the person very materialistic, atheistic, or fanatical
against the established religion or society.   Thus the planets blend  their
individual natures with the sign.

   NEPTUNE  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO URANUS gives inclination towards the  occult
or  mystical side of life,  and if either is placed in the Tenth  House  the
person  usually  becomes a leader or authority in these lines,  he  wins  at
least local recognition and if other testimonies  concur  his  fame  will be


[PAGE 378]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

national  or international.   Such aspects will bring direct touch with  the
spiritual  world and success in dealing with the inhabitants of that  plane.
It is also productive of dreams and visions of a prophetic and inspirational
nature.   It strengthens the healing powers and will consequently enable the
person to do a great deal of good for his suffering fellow-men.   These  as-
pects   give   a  highly  developed  intuition  which  amounts   almost   to
mind-reading.   There  is a love of travel and exploration of  the  physical
world as well as of nature's finer realms.   Nor are such people  altogether
dreamers,  they have a strong will with excellent executive  and  organizing
powers which will aid them in realizing their hopes, wishes and ambitions to
rise in life and be at the forefront of whatever profession they select.

   NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO URANUS are convertible aspects; if the
planets  are well placed by sign and otherwise well aspected,  their  effect
will be similar to the sextile or trine,  though not so pronounced,  but  if
they are cadent weak by sign, and afflicted they are only a little less evil
than when aspected by square or opposition.

   NEPTUNE SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO URANUS brings underhanded,  deceptive in-
fluences into the life which aim to undermine  the  reputation  and make the


[PAGE 379]                                    URANUS, THE PLANET OF ALTRUISM

person suffer scandal and public disfavor, sudden and unaccountable reverses
in business are met with,  or trouble in social affairs.   there is the same
love  of travel and exploration as given by the good aspects but the  person
cannot  accomplish his aims with the same facility,  or if he does it is  to
his disadvantage and brings added trouble.  He is also drawn towards the oc-
cult or mystic side of life,  but his path is beset by dangers of mediumship
and obsession and all through life he is filled with premonitions of  danger
and a vague dread of impending disaster which he can neither account for nor
dispel by will or reason,  hence uncertainty overshadows the life as a cloud
and robs him of peace and contentment.


                             --- END OF FILE ---

