[PAGE 380]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                CHAPTER XVII.

                       NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

   As  URANUS is the octave of Venus and acts principally upon the love  na-
ture,  aiming to elevate mankind in matters personal and social,  so Neptune
is the octave of Mercury, and altogether spiritual in its aims.   As Mercury
is  Lightbearer  of  the physical Sun, so Neptune  is  Lightbearer  for  the
spiritual  Sun,  (called Vulcan by the Western  Mystics).   Intellectuality,
ruled by Mercury lifted us above the animal and made man, man;  the Spiritu-
ality  ruled by Neptune will in time raise us beyond the state of the  human
and make us divine.

   Neptune really signifies what we may call "the gods"  commencing with the
supernormal beings we know as Elder Brothers, and compassing the innumerable
hosts of spiritual entities, good, bad, and indifferent, which influence our
evolution.   Its position and aspects denote our relation to  them;  malefic
aspects attract agencies of a nature inimical to our welfare,  benefic  con-
figurations draw upon the good forces.   Thus,  if Neptune is placed in  the
Tenth House,  trine to the ascendant,  the person involved will have the op-
portunity to become a leader or prominent in a movement along mystical lines


[PAGE 381]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

as denoted by the exalted position of Neptune.   His body will be capable of
receiving  the finer vibrations,  and of coming in touch with the  spiritual
world,  as denoted by the trine of the ascendant.   On the other hand,  when
Neptune is placed in the Twelfth House,  whose nature is passive and produc-
tive of suffering, that position indicates that at some time,  perhaps under
a   square   form  the  midheaven,   the  evil  forces,   among   whom   are
spirit-controls, will be drawn to that person and endeavor to obtain posses-
sion of the body.   the conjunction of Neptune with the ascendant will  make
the body sensitive and usable for spiritual purposes,  as well as the trine.
Given  the opportunity afforded by the first aspect mentioned,  the man  may
become a pupil of a mystery school and a factor for great good in the uplift
of mankind;  placed under the affliction of the second aspect, he may become
a helpless tool of spirit-controls: an irresponsible medium.

   But there is one factor which is never shown in the horoscope,  and  that
is the will of man.  He is bound at some time in life to meet with the expe-
riences denoted by his horoscope, and the opportunities there indicated will
be placed before him one by one in orderly succession,  as the clock of des-
tiny  marks  the appropriate time;  but how he,  the  free  and  independent
spirit,  meets that fated experience,  no one can determine beforehand,  and
the man in whose horoscope the first mentioned benefic configuration  occurs
may not be sufficiently awake to  the  great opportunity before him to catch


[PAGE 382]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

it on the wing, it may have flown before he realizes it was there.  Yes,  he
may never become aware of the fact.  On the other hand,  the person in whose
life  the  square indicates the assault by spiritual forces  mentioned,  may
develop his spiritual muscle by resisting the onslaught and become a  victor
instead of being vanquished.  Forewarned is forearmed.

   Neptune  was not discovered until 1846,  but we should err greatly if  we
supposed the influence ascribed to it fictitious on that account, for as the
person born blind lacks the organs to see the sunlight and colors,  so  most
of  humanity is still lacking the sensibility which makes them  amenable  to
the vibrations of Neptune.  (See Chapter on that subject,  also on Planetary
Octaves).   But we are gradually developing finer feelings and becoming more
able to respond to his influence.  At first this influence is mostly felt by
sensitives who become occultists when of a positive nature and mediums  when
negative,  others gain from it the cunning common alike to the criminal  and
the detective, or it impels the weakling to take drugs which in another man-
ner produce dreams and visions similar to those obtained by the  mediumistic
process.

   Neptune strong in the figure gives a very vivid imagination and an artis-
tic nature,  poetic,  musical or literary, a fondness of ease,  comfort  and
beautiful  surroundings.   The person is easily swayed by the emotions,  and
when Neptune is afflicted may become subject to trances, fainting, hysteria,


[PAGE 383]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

or psychic storms.  There is a love of travel, preferably by water.

   When  Neptune is weak by sign or afflicted it also inclines to  drink  or
drugs,  it robs the person of ambition and makes him an indolent  loafer  or
cheat,  thoroughly dishonest,  or if the horoscope is otherwise good he  may
become the prey of other people who will rob or defraud him.  People with an
afflicted Neptune should particularly avoid dealings with large corporations
or they may be subjected to swindles of the most fantastic nature.

                        NEPTUNE IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

   NEPTUNE IN THE ASCENDANT,  OR FIRST HOUSE.   Neptune is by nature occult,
prophetic and spiritual.   The Ascendant signifies the body wherein we func-
tion and thus by combination of these ideas we find that Neptune on the  As-
cendant will give a particularly sensitive body capable of feeling the finer
vibrations  in  nature,  and according to the aspects which the  planet  re-
ceives, these will be either good, bad or indifferent.  If Neptune is strong
and well aspected to the Sun, Jupiter or Uranus,  we may judge that there is
an intensely mystical nature latent in the person.   Whether or not it  will
be developed is,  of course, another question depending upon opportunity and
environment.  On the other hand, if Neptune  is  afflicted,  it  indicates a


[PAGE 384]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

very low mentality,  perhaps even insanity.   In any case the nature is  vi-
sionary, romantic and generally unpractical, at least from the worldly stan-
dard.   The  prophetic,  inspirational and visionary faculties  are  usually
highly developed when Neptune is unafflicted in the First House.  There is a
love of art and music, a desire for luxury and whatever gives power and tone
to life.  But when Neptune is afflicted in the First House the nature is in-
dolent, procrastinating and changeable; perverted tastes and desires come to
the  front  and impel to acts of indiscretion which may bring  grave  conse-
quences.  There is indication of prostitution of the spiritual faculties;  a
deceptive,  dishonest disposition,  also a tendency to mediumship and spirit
obsession.

   NEPTUNE  IN  THE SECOND HOUSE and well aspected brings gain  through  all
things in which water plays a prominent part; also through mystic and occult
matters and societies.  But if Neptune is afflicted the financial affairs of
the person will always be in an uncertain, chaotic state.

   NEPTUNE IN THE THIRD HOUSE, when well aspected enhances the mental facul-
ties to a considerable degree.   It gives ability in the direction of inspi-
rational writing and speaking,  high ideals,  a devotional mind.   But  when
Neptune is afflicted in the Third House the mind is of a low order, cunning,
sometimes imbecile and idiotic,  with  weird  and uncanny feelings and per-


[PAGE 385]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

verted appetites.   Neptune in the Third House also gives a tendency to many
journeys,  frequently by water,  but whether or not they are successful  de-
pends upon the aspects.

   NEPTUNE IN THE FOURTH HOUSE, when well aspected,  gives a spiritual atmo-
sphere to the home with unusual conditions for soul-growth through the rela-
tionships  there formed,  but when afflicted it brings fraud and  deception,
unhappiness and distrust,  peculiar problems and many changes of  residence.
There is also a liability to extreme poverty at the close of life, even con-
finement in a public institution of charity.

   NEPTUNE IN THE FIFTH HOUSE,  strong and well aspected,  indicates a  suc-
cessful courtship of one of a highly advanced spiritual nature, success as a
teacher  of  mystic  matters,  and gain by investment  in  things  ruled  by
Neptune,  aquatic sports and any other business in which the watery  element
is strong.

   NEPTUNE IN THE SIXTH HOUSE,  well aspected,  is a favorable indication of
latent  psychic  faculties  which  may be developed  with  profit  from  the
spiritual point of view.  But when afflicted it predisposes to the prostitu-
tion of spiritual faculties by mediumship, etc.   Thus the person may become
subject  to  spirit  control  and run grave  danger  of  obsession.  It also


[PAGE 386]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

indicates  trouble  and loss through employees and a  liability  to  chronic
wasting diseases and deformity.   Usually these tendencies are then accentu-
ated by a sensuous nature and a self-indulgent manner of living.

   NEPTUNE  IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE and well aspected indicates a  marriage  to
tone of an occult,  inspirational nature, generally a platonic union of  the
most  soul-satisfying  nature,  a true companionship of two who  are  really
mates.  It also shows success as a public speaker on occult or mystical sub-
jects.   But when afflicted, Neptune in the Seventh House shows an emotional
mediumistic, unreliable marriage partner, or there may be fraud or deception
in  connection  with the marriage,  perhaps one of the  partners  committing
bigamy.   this position also indicates one of the parasites that  prey  upon
the  public in general,  or of those who become victims of public  disfavor,
all according to the nature of the aspects.   They show whether or not  this
is merited.

   NEPTUNE IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE,  when well aspected,  gives gain through the
marriage  partner,  but not through the ordinary channels  of  business;  it
comes in a peculiar manner.   This position is also favorable for occult in-
vestigation and often enables the person who has it to obtain information at


[PAGE 387]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

at first hand.   But when Neptune is afflicted in the Eighth house it brings
a  loss  by fraud or deception of the marriage partner,  financial  troubles
with estates or corporations and a strange, unusual ending to the life.

   NEPTUNE  IN  THE  NINTH HOUSE is very favorable for  the  cultivation  of
spiritual faculties;  when well aspected,  it brings strange visions and un-
usual intuitional forebodings and presentiments, also profit and pleasure in
connection with long journeys or voyages.

   When  Neptune is afflicted in the Ninth House it makes the  mind  fearful
and anxious,  always on the QUI VIVE with vague forebodings;  it inclines to
travel but brings trouble in that connection, also danger of legal complica-
tion and loss on that account.

   NEPTUNE IN THE TENTH HOUSE,  when well aspected indicates one of high as-
pirations  and inspirations,  spiritually inclined, who has the  ability  to
rise to leadership, fame and honor, in connection with some mystical society
or in scientific research.   This position of Neptune also indicates an  ac-
cident to one of the parents, probably by water, while the person is still a
child, but when the planet is well aspected a legacy often accrues.

   Neptune in the Tenth house and trine to the Sun or Moon are sure signs of


[PAGE 388]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the  ability  to cultivate the spiritual sight in this life.   A  number  of
well-known seers have this aspect.

   When  Neptune is afflicted in the Tenth House it indicates fraud,  decep-
tion and dishonesty which in time will bring their reward of sorrow, trouble
and scandal.

   NEPTUNE  IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE and well aspected shows a person  of  high
spiritual aspirations and the ability to attract others of a similar  nature
who will be of help to him in realizing his desires, hopes and wishes.  When
Neptune  is  afflicted  in the Eleventh House  it  indicates  deception  and
treachery  on the part of people who pose as friends;  this will bring  loss
and  trouble.   Therefore people with this position should  be  particularly
careful whom they cultivate and admit their friendship.

   NEPTUNE IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE,  well aspected,  brings success in research
work  of a scientific or occult nature which is carried on in secret or  far
from the haunts of men.  It also indicates a secret soul-satisfying or clan-
destine but honorable relationship with someone which will bring benefit  to
both  and  it  not infrequently happens that this friend is  in  the  spirit
world,  but the relations is much more close in such cases than it can  ever
be between friends who are both in the physical body.   When Neptune is  af-
flicted  in the Twelfth House  it  gives  a  liability  to  confinement  and


[PAGE 389]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

restraint in a public institution such as a hospital, asylum, or prison,  on
account of secret but powerful enemies, a chronic and noisome disease or in-
sanity due to perverted practices.

                         NEPTUNE IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

   NEPTUNE IN ARIES, when well aspected fills a person with religious enthu-
siasm,  though not always of the orthodox kind, and gives him the energy and
ambition  to push forward to the front rank in whatever line of thought  and
belief he espouses.   There is a desire to elevate humanity to a higher  and
more noble plane of life and on that account this configuration or  position
usually brings the person forward as a public character or more or less  im-
portance, according to the general aspects and tenor of the horoscope.

   But when afflicted,  Neptune in Aries brings out the destructive  tenden-
cies.   There is a similar desire to raise humanity to realms of  happiness,
but  the methods are anarchistic and it incites to murder of those whom  the
person  conceives to be the enemies of society,  by bomb plot or  assassina-
tion,  and lays the person liable to imprisonment on account  of  conspiracy
against the government or others in authority.

   NEPTUNE IN TAURUS gives a kindly, companionable disposition and an incli-
nation  towards  the  beautiful and artistic in nature.  He is fond of music


[PAGE 390]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

and the pleasures of life.   This is also a good omen for the acquisition of
land or property.  But when Neptune is afflicted in Taurus it gives a sensu-
ous and passionate nature and a strong tendency to gourmandize which in time
is bound to bring trouble and sorrow in its wake.

   NEPTUNE IN GEMINI,  well aspected,  is one of the best indications of un-
usual mental faculties,  for Neptune is the octave of Mercury the planet  of
mind, logic and reason.  Hence this position develops the occult,  prophetic
and inspirational faculties.  It makes the person sensitive to the finer in-
tuitional  and inspirational vibrations in nature.   It is the signature  of
genius in one direction or another according to the conditions in the  horo-
scope.  It gives the gift of oratory and unusual literary ability, and makes
the person a fine mechanician or mathematician; in short,  there is no field
of endeavor where mental ingenuity is required, that the person with Neptune
in Gemini, well aspected, does not excel.

   But when Neptune is afflicted in Gemini it indicates inability to concen-
trate to any good purpose.  The mind is restless, chaotic and wavering,  in-
clined  to cunning,  fraud and deception,  or at best it makes the person  a
visionary and a dreamer who is apt to become the dupe of others.   There  is
generally trouble with brothers, sisters and neighbors who cordially dislike


[PAGE 391]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

the person in whose horoscope this aspect is found.

   NEPTUNE IN CANCER,  when well aspected,  gives an intuitive,  sympathetic
and  lovable nature quick to understand the sorrows and joys of  others  and
ready to feel for them or with them.   Hence these people are generally very
much liked, both in the home and in their immediate circle of acquaintances.
This position also brings them in touch with the finer forces of nature  and
enables them to cultivate such spiritual faculties as psychometry and a spe-
cies  of intuition whereby they can get in touch with whomsoever or  whatso-
ever they wish for the help and benefit of others.   They are very versatile
in the spiritual direction and may reach great heights by devotion, which is
strongly  expressed  in them.   But when Neptune is afflicted in  Cancer  it
gives a very self-indulgent disposition which generally exerts a baneful in-
fluence  in the home,  perhaps more by inuendo than by direct malicious  ex-
pression.   This position also gives peculiar tastes and appetites which are
apt to cause great trouble to the alimentative system and there is a  strong
inclination for drugs or drink.

   NEPTUNE IN LEO,  when well aspected,  gives a generous,  sympathetic  and
warm-hearted disposition,  a sociable nature, fond of pleasures and artistic
pursuits.  These people have considerable ability and success in educational


[PAGE 392]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

pursuits  because of an intimate understanding of the nature of  others  and
the faculty of imparting to them whatever knowledge they possess themselves.
They are very conscientious in their dealings with others and successful  in
affairs of the heart.

   But  when Neptune is afflicted in Leo it makes the  nature  super-sensual
and therefore liable to disappointments in love.   These people are governed
by  impulse rather than by reason;  they lack the stamina to face an  issue,
are cowardly,  fickle and not to be depended upon; they incur a general dis-
like among their acquaintances.

   NEPTUNE IN VIRGO.  Mercury,  the planet of mind,  reason and logic is ex-
alted in Virgo, and the occult, prophetic, inspirational,  spiritual,  devo-
tional and musical Neptune is the octave of Mercury,  hence the blending  of
the Mercurial and Neptunian qualities produced by Neptune in Virgo gives ex-
ceptionally  fine  mental faculties with the addition of  inspiration,  pro-
phetic ability,  devotion to high ideals when Neptune is well aspected,  for
Neptune adds gentleness and sympathy to the cold Mercury; though such people
are rather odd in their ideas and inclinations,  especially with respect  to
marriage, which they usually regard from the platonic standpoint.


[PAGE 393]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

If  Neptune is afflicted in virgo it gives hypochondriac tendencies  and  an
imagination of having all the ills and ailments in the universe which  makes
the person's life miserable.   There is also a tendency to become the  play-
thing  of  spirit controls,  not only with respect to  mediumship  but  such
people  are liable to direct obsession and when this calamity has  once  oc-
curred it is very difficult to free the body from the obsessing entity.

   NEPTUNE IN LIBRA, when well aspected, gives a musical,  poetic and artis-
tic  temperament  and indicates a union of a highly spiritual  nature  which
will  be of great comfort and satisfaction to the person.   When Neptune  is
afflicted in Libra,  there is a tendency to clandestine,  unconventional and
illegitimate  relations,  either of the person himself or  of  the  marriage
partner,  according to the nature of the aspects to Neptune.  It indicates a
weak and over-emotional nature which incurs and merits the dislike for those
in its immediate environment.

   NEPTUNE IN SCORPIO,  well aspected,  gives a desire to delve into the se-
crets of nature and thus it is a good position for those who work in  scien-
tific  or occult research.   It gives energy,  enthusiasm and  inspirational
perception  beyond the realm of reason and augurs successful  accomplishment
of whatever is undertaken.  But when afflicted it gives a terrible temper, a


[PAGE 394]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

sensuous and passionate nature,  an inordinate desire for drink or drugs and
a tendency to drowning either by accident or design.

   NEPTUNE IN SAGITTARIUS,  when well aspected increases the  inspirational,
devotional and religious tendencies in the horoscope.  It brings dreams, vi-
sions,  and occult experiences.   There is love of travel and a great enjoy-
ment  of the pleasures thus obtained.  When Neptune is afflicted  in  Sagit-
tarius the subjects become liable to fears and forebodings; dreams of danger
and  visions of distress prey upon the mind,  making life miserable.   Some-
times  they have great desires to travel but are unable to gratify them,  or
if they do they have trouble or accidents to contend with.

   NEPTUNE IN CAPRICORN,  when well aspected gives a serious and  contempla-
tive nature, able to concentrate upon whatever matters come before it, hence
such people are successful, keen and far-sighted business men, usually work-
ing on a large scale, or if the nature of the other aspects of the horoscope
draws  them  toward secret work they make excellent  detectives  capable  of
solving the most intricate problems, or researchers along psychic lines;  in
fact  they excel in any occupation where deep thought and concentration  are
the keys to success.


[PAGE 395]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

   But  when  Neptune is afflicted in Capricorn it makes the  nature  melan-
choly,  secretive and very often deceitful.   These people re generally  re-
cluses and shun the society of their fellow-men.

   NEPTUNE IN AQUARIUS,  when well aspected,  gives an altruistic or utopian
disposition  with a desire to emancipate the whole world from  whatever  so-
cial,  mental,  moral or physical ills the person may be able  to  perceive.
Hence  these people are usually too far in advance of their time and age  to
be  understood.   They are regarded as dreamers and  visionaries,  idealists
and,  as in a sense,  dangerous to society because of their originality  and
independence  of conventions.   At the same time they are very popular  with
the  most  progressive people in society.   They easily  apprehend  Nature's
finer  forces  and  are therefore the pioneers in  exploration  of  hitherto
undreamed-of fields.

   When  Neptune is afflicted in Aquarius it gives similar ideas and  ideals
in  regard to conventions.   But it is only too liable to bring such  people
and their lives into discredit and disgrace.

   NEPTUNE  IN PISCES,  when well aspected gives a love of mysticism  and  a
tendency  to investigate the occult.  Sometimes these people  develop  their
spiritual faculties and obtain first-hand knowledge.  They are compassionate
towards others, unobtrusive, retiring in their manner,  well like also often


[PAGE 396]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the recipients of aid from others, cheerfully and willingly given.

   When  Neptune  is  afflicted in Pisces the person  is  liable  to  suffer
through  mediumship,  obsession and deception of secret enemies.   There  is
danger  of  imprisonment and a tendency to indulge in drink or  drugs  which
will end in sorrow and self-undoing.

                    NEPTUNE IN ASPECT WITH OTHER PLANETS

   THE SUN SEXTILE OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE favors the possibility of  developing
spiritual  faculties,  for Neptune intensifies the higher vibrations in  the
aura  and as some express themselves best through music these  aspects  make
them unusually sensitive to echoes from the heavenworld,  which is the realm
of  tone.   Many people with these configurations hear the  harmony  of  the
spheres  and if Mercury,  the lower octave of Neptune,  gives the  requisite
dexterity they become musicians of a high inspirational nature.   In  others
it  breeds a love of the occult which leads them into the higher  life,  but
they usually approach it from the intellectual standpoint as psychic  inves-
tigators.  A few live the life and obtain first-hand knowledge.

   THE  SUN  PARALLEL,  CONJUNCTION,  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO  NEPTUNE  also
brings  the  person  in  touch  with  the denizens of the invisible world by


[PAGE 397]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

raising the vibrations in his aura, but these configurations attract the un-
desirable  element such as are seen at the ordinary  spiritualistic  seance.
In a watery sign Neptune induces the person to drink to excess and then  the
resulting acceleration of the vibratory rate frequently causes such a person
to perceive the ugly and gruesome forms abounding in the lower realms of the
invisible world,  which are real elemental entities and not figments of  his
fancy  as believed by people who hear him tell what he sees during  delirium
tremens.

   VENUS  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE makes an inspirational  musician.   It
gives  a fertile imagination and deep emotions,  a nature that is  pure  and
chaste,  hence occasionally it leads to platonic unions and companionship of
the most ecstatic nature.

   VENUS CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO NEPTUNE is to be judged on the same line
as indicated in the cases of Mars and Uranus.

   VENUS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO NEPTUNE makes the person liable to  sorrow,
loss and trouble,  especially through the marriage partner or anyone else in
whom he trusts.  People with these aspects should be particularly careful to
avoid anything which has in it an  element of chance or speculation for they


[PAGE 398]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

are  sure to lose,  especially in dealing with large companies  or  corpora-
tions.

   MERCURY IN CONJUNCTION,  PARALLEL,  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE makes  a
man  peculiarly adapted to the occult art,  particularly if the  conjunction
occurs  in  the  Third  or  Ninth  House  or  the  trines  are  from  watery
signs--Cancer,  Scorpio or Pisces.   Such people usually succeed  in  occult
science and often develop a supernormal faculty.  They are particularly good
as magnetic healers.

   MERCURY  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO NEPTUNE gives a chaotic mind,  liability
to  lack  of memory,  indolence and a disposition to dream  the  time  away.
There  is a restless desire for fame frustrated by inability to fit in  any-
where.   Such  people are liable to fraud,  deception and slander,  also  to
temptation to suicide.

   THE MOON SEXTILE OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE increases the faculty of imagination
to a superlative degree, especially if either of the planets is in the Ninth
House.   Then it favors prophetic dreams and visions which bring the  person
into contact with the invisible worlds.  It indicates ability in the  occult
arts and success in their practice.  It makes the nature exceedingly  inspi-
rational  and  it  also  gives a  kind  and  sympathetic  disposition.   The
spiritual  qualities mentioned may  not  be  apparent  even  to  the  person


[PAGE 399]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

himself,  but them they re latent and capable of development.   It  is  also
safe  to say that at some time or other during the life persons  with  these
aspects  will  come in contact with the occult and be very  much  attracted,
whether the qualities of the soul are developed or not.

   THE  MOON  CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO NEPTUNE indicates the  same  strong
psychic faculties as the good aspects, particularly if Neptune is placed  in
the psychic sign Cancer.   Those who have been norm with the good configura-
tions of Neptune during the fourteen years when it was in the airy  scienti-
fic sign Gemini are now conquering the air and perfecting scientific  inven-
tions which will make us marvel,  but  the children who have been born under
favorable configurations during the fourteen years Neptune  has  been  going
through the psychic sign  Cancer  are growing up around us as a band of mys-
tics and when  they  have  reached  mature  years they will astonish us with 
their spiritual insight and power.  Among other things they will develop the
soul of music in a hitherto unprecedented manner.

   THE  MOON  SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO NEPTUNE is also an indication  of  the
soul  qualities similar to those given by the good aspects,  but  under  the
former aspects the person will be  of a negative nature and is apt to become


[PAGE 400]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the  prey of spirit-controls and subjected to mediumship,  therefore  people
with  those aspects should be very careful not to attend spiritualistic  se-
ances, "sit in silence" or use other methods of occult development.

   SATURN SEXTILE OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE is good for success in worldly affairs
for it brings out the saturnine virtues, forethought, honor,  self-reliance,
determinations,  system et cetera,  by which the person gains the confidence
and  esteem of others,  but the principal effect is spiritual and  therefore
only  felt by those who are able to respond because of other aspects in  the
horoscope.   To  them it gives the ability to delve deeply into  occult  and
mystical  subjects,  also  to  become proficient in  the  art  and  practice
thereof.

   SATURN CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO NEPTUNE has the same effect as the good
aspects  when it occurs in a sign where either of the planets are strong  as
Neptune is in Cancer and Pisces and Saturn in Libra and Capricorn.

   SATURN SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO NEPTUNE lays the person liable to loss  by
deception,  treachery or fraud in worldly matters and if he should undertake
to investigate or practise the occult art he is liable to become the prey of
spirit-controls and be led into  mediumship  with  consequent  danger to the


[PAGE 401]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

health, and liability to attempt suicide.

   JUPITER  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE gives an inspirational mystical  na-
ture and ability to fill a position connected with occult orders, that is to
say,  where the character is sufficiently developed so that Neptune can make
the  influence  felt for then this position brings out all the  noblest  and
most spiritual strength of both planets, and occult experiences are not  in-
frequently the result.   At any rate, during the sleeping hours these people
are quite active and conscious in the invisible worlds and often bring expe-
riences back with them as dreams or visions.

   JUPITER CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO NEPTUNE gives an influence similar  to
that of the good aspects when Neptune and Jupiter are not afflicted,  but if
they are in a weak sign and aspecting the other planets by square or opposi-
tion them the influence is similar to that of the bad aspects of Jupiter and
Neptune.

   JUPITER SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO NEPTUNE indicates lack of control of  the
emotions.   The  person  is sensitive to the influences  of  the  borderland
between  the  seen  and  the  unseen  worlds  but  they  are  often  of   an
awe-inspiring and disgusting type, hence apt to cause hysterical conditions,
involuntary  trance  and kindred disorders attendant upon negative psychism,


[PAGE 402]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

but from a material standpoint it gives danger of fraud through  speculation
or large companies and dealing with predatory interests should therefore  be
avoided.

   MARS  SEXTILE  OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE intensifies the emotional  nature  and
gives  a leaning toward the study and practice of occultism  and  mysticism.
When other testimonies in the horoscope concur,  the martial energy directed
toward  the psychic subjects denoted by Neptune often helps the person  very
materially in his aim to penetrate into the invisible worlds in a  conscious
manner.

   MARS CONJUNCTION,  SQUARE,  PARALLEL,  OR OPPOSITION TO NEPTUNE makes the
nature coarse and sensual, impulsive and irascible, militant and extravagant
in speech and action,  self-indulgent to a degree in whatever direction  his
passions  may lead him and unable to exercise restraint over himself in  any
direction.   It gives a fanatical spirit which may express itself in  either
religion  or atheism and under favorable conditions such people are   liable
to become victims of discarnate spirits who may either use them as a  medium
or by obsessing them.   It gives a tendency to lawlessness and participation
in anarchistic schemes or plots.


[PAGE 403]                                   NEPTUNE, THE PLANET OF DIVINITY

   URANUS  SEXTILE OR TRINE TO NEPTUNE gives inclination towards the  occult
or  mystical side of life,  and if either is placed in the Tenth  House  the
person  usually  becomes a leader or authority in these lines,  he  wins  at
least local recognition and if other testimonies concur his fame will be na-
tional  or international.   Such an aspect will bring direct tough with  the
spiritual  world and success in dealing with inhabitants of that plane.   It
produces  dreams  and  visions  of a  prophetic  and  inspirational  nature,
strengthens the healing powers and will consequently enable the person to do
a  great deal of good for his suffering fellow-men.   These aspects  give  a
highly developed intuition which amounts almost to mind-reading.  There is a
love of travel and exploration of the physical world as well as of  nature's
finer realms.   Nor are such people altogether dreamers,  they have a strong
will  with excellent executive and organizing powers which will aid them  in
realizing  their hopes,  wishes and ambitions to rise in life and be at  the
forefront of whatever profession they select.

   URANUS CONJUNCTION OR PARALLEL TO NEPTUNE are convertible aspects; if the
planets are well placed by sign and otherwise well afflicted,  their  effect
will be similar to the sextile or trine,  though not so pronounced,  but  if
they are cadent, weak by sign, and afflicted they  are  only  a  little less


[PAGE 404]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

evil than when aspected by square or opposition.

   URANUS SQUARE OR OPPOSITION TO NEPTUNE brings underhanded,  deceptive in-
fluences  into the life which aim to undermine the reputation and  make  the
person suffer scandal and public disfavor, sudden and unaccountable reverses
in business are met with,  or trouble in social affairs.   There is the same
love  of travel and exploration as given by the good aspects but the  person
cannot  accomplish his aims with the same facility,  or if he does it is  to
his  disadvantage and brings added trouble He is also drawn towards the  oc-
cult or mystic side of life,  but his path is beset by dangers of mediumship
and  obsession and all through life he is filled with a vague dread  of  im-
pending disaster which he can neither account for nor dispel by will or rea-
son, hence uncertainty overshadows the life as a cloud and robs him of peace
and contentment.



For influence of Pluto see pages 728-734.


[PAGE 405]                                       THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION

                                CHAPTER XVIII

                  THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION IN A NUTSHELL

   Students of the Stellar Science will find the following Table very useful
in delineating horoscopes for though the planets confer many more character-
istics  than there given,  as shown in the general reading which  opens  the
chapter wherein the places and aspects of each planet are given, the follow-
ing keywords give in a succinct manner the quintessence of the  characteris-
tics  conferred  by  each  planet according to whether it  is  well  or  ill
aspected.

   When the student has mastered the meaning of the positions and aspects of
the  various  planets  as given in the preceding chapters he  may  with  the
greatest  of  ease give a good delineation of the effect of each  aspect  by
combining  the key-words in this Table and elaborating upon them.   for  in-
stance,  if reading a horoscope where the Sun is trine Saturn,  put down the
description given in the Table as follows:

   "The vital, venturesome and authoritive Sun trine the deliberative,  per-
severing,   tactful,   cautious,  methodical  and  thoughtful  Saturn  (then
elaborate)  will give John a tenacious hold on life and endow him with  both
courage and caution, so that while he may seem venturesome at times  he will


[PAGE 406]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

always carefully calculate the obstacles to be overcome and not attempt any-
thing foolhardy,  but accomplish his object once he has decided to go ahead.
He will be systematic, orderly and methodical,  also persevering in whatever
he undertakes after due deliberation and forethought, hence his efforts will
generally be brought to a successful issue.   In dealing with others he will
be thoughtful and tactful,  hence usually able to obtain his desires by  di-
plomacy.   On account of these qualities he will be generally successful  in
life and he will lay up a fair fortune, for Saturn is also the planet of ac-
quisitiveness."

   In  a similar manner students may combine the key-words of all the  other
planets and aspects from this Table and elaborate on them as they can.  This
will enable them to give a good reading of any horoscope with a little prac-
tice.   For further practical demonstration of this method students are  ad-
vised  to study the children's horoscopes in RAYS FROM THE RED CROSS,  where
the writer makes use of it every month.   These horoscopes are a mine of in-
struction which not student desiring to perfect himself in the stellar  sci-
ence  can afford to be without.   The key-words will bring to his mind  what
has  been said about the general nature of the planets under  consideration;
this he may combine with the nature of the signs and houses where the  plan-
ets are placed if a very full reading is desired.


[PAGE 407]                                       THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION

                        TABLE OF PLANETARY KEY-WORDS

The vital, venturesome, dignified and authoritive Sun.

The lazy, ambitionless, despotic and cowardly Sun.

The harmonious, artistic, beautiful, lovely, cheerful and suave Venus.

The dissolute, sensual, vulgar, slothful, loud and lazy Venus.

The quick-witted,  versatile,  eloquent, literary, adroit and dexterous Mer-
cury.

The restless, shiftless, profane, gossipy, demagogic, dishonest, untruthful,
forgetful, and clumsy Mercury.

The magnetic, imaginative, plastic and changeable Moon.

The negative,  procrastinating, dreamy, vacillating,  visionary,  frivolous,
childish and worrisome Moon.

The cautious,  deliberate, methodical, persevering, tactful,  thoughtful and
thrifty Saturn.


[PAGE 408]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

The malicious, materialistic, melancholy, pessimistic, avaricious,  obstruc-
tive, secretive and worrisome Saturn.

The law-abiding, charitable, conservative, reverent, optimistic, opulent and
benevolent Jupiter.

The indolent, procrastinating, bombastic, ostentatious, prodigal, dissipated
and lawless Jupiter.

The gallant, enterprising, energetic, enthusiastic and constructive Mars.

The advanced,  romantic, original, independent, liberty-loving and inventive
Uranus.

The licentious, unconventional, fanatical and irresponsible Uranus.

The  occult,  prophetic,  inspirational, spiritual,  devotional and  musical
Neptune.

The fraudulent, vague, deceptive, dishonest and mediumistic Neptune.


[PAGE 409]                                       THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION

                  THE STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS OF THE PLANETS

           SHOWN BY ELEVATION, EXALTATION, CRITICAL DEGREES, ETC.

   The foregoing delineation of the effects and influences of the planets in
the various houses and signs,  also by aspect and position such as  parallel
and conjunction,  sextile, square, trine and opposition, are subject to wide
modification according to the other configurations of the horoscope, and ac-
cording to whether the planets are essentially dignified or in their  detri-
ment,  exalted  or in fall,  or placed in critical degrees.   The  following
table  of  planetary  powers will show at a glance the signs  in  which  the
various planets are strong or weak;  and when the student known in what sign
a  planet rules or is exalted it is only necessary to remember that  it  has
its fall or detriment in the opposite sign.   Thus the Sun rules Leo and  is
exalted in Aries.   Hence it is very powerful in those signs, and as the op-
posite signs are Aquarius and Libra it is at once apparent that when  placed
in  these  signs the Sun is comparatively weak.   Another  important  factor
which it is necessary to take into consideration is elevation.  The closer a
planet is to the Midheaven, the more highly it is elevated and the more pow-
erful  it is.   Consulting the table of planetary powers we find  that  Mars
rules  Aries  and is exalted in Capricorn.  Let us suppose that in  a  horo-
scope, Mars is found placed close to the Midheaven in Aries or Capricorn and


[PAGE 410]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

square to the Sun which is near the Ascendant.   Then the evil will be  very
much greater than if Mars were in Libra or Cancer, the signs of his fall and
detriment,  and  the  Sun  placed in  the  Midheaven  elevated  above  Mars.
Similarly,  if the Sun were placed in Aries,  its exaltation sign,  close to
the Midheaven in high elevation and trine to Jupiter in its own sign, Sagit-
tarius,  then  both planets are very strong and their effect would  be  much
more  marked than if they were placed in the signs of their fall and  debil-
ity.   By memorizing this table and bearing in mind the matter of elevation,
the student will be able to form a much more accurate judgment of the effect
of  planets in any particular horoscope than if this is not taken into  con-
sideration.

                          TABLE OF PLANETARY POWERS

PLANET     RULES                  DETRIMENT            EXALTATION      FALL

SUN------LEO------------------AQUARIUS-------------ARIES 19 DEG.---LIBRA

VENUS----TAURUS, LIBRA--------SCORPIO, ARIES-------PISCES 27-------VIRGO

MERCURY--GEMINI, VIRGO--------SAGITTARIUS, PISCES--VIRGO 15--------PISCES

MOON-----CANCER---------------CAPRICORN------------TAURUS 3--------SCORPIO

SATURN---CAPRICORN, AQUARIUS--CANCER, LEO----------LIBRA 21--------ARIES

JUPITER--PISCES, SAGITTARIUS--VIRGO, GEMINI--------CANCER 15-------CAPRICORN

MARS-----ARIES, SCORPIO-------LIBRA, TAURUS--------CAPRICORN 28----CANCER

URANUS---AQUARIUS-------------LEO------------------SCORPIO---------TAURUS

NEPTUNE--PISCES---------------VIRGO----------------CANCER----------CAPRICORN




[PAGE 411]                                       THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION

                              CRITICAL DEGREES

   Another division of the Zodiac which it is easy to remember and important
to  take into consideration is based upon the massage of the Moon  from  the
first degree of Aries through the twelve signs.   It takes the Moon about 28
days  to go around the Zodiac and she moves with an average velocity  of  13
degrees.   Thus  if we start with the first point of Aries and  measure  one
day's travel,  the second day will commence at the 13th degree and the third
at the 26th;  the fourth commences at 9 degrees of Taurus and the fifth  day
she  starts at 21 degrees of the same sign;  on the sixth day she reaches  4
degrees of Gemini; on the seventh day she starts at 17 degrees of Gemini and
completes the first quarter by reaching the cusp of Cancer on the morning of
the eighth day.   It is evident that she will strike the same degrees of the
signs composing the other three quarters during the three weeks it takes her
to  complete the circuit,  and thus we may easily memorize the critical  de-
grees in the following manner:

   IN  THE CARDINAL SIGNS--Aries,  Cancer, Libra and Capricorn,  the  first,
thirteenth, and twenty-sixth degrees are critical.

   IN  THE FIXED SIGNS--Taurus,  Leo,  Scorpio and Aquarius,  the ninth  and
twenty-first degrees are critical.

   IN THE COMMON SIGNS--Gemini,  Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces,  the  fourth
and seventeenth degrees are critical.


[PAGE 412]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   It  has been found that when a planet is within orb of three  degrees  of
one  of these critical points it exercises a much stronger influence in  the
life than it would otherwise.   Therefore students will also do well to  re-
member this and should a planet be in a sign of fall or detriment,  but in a
critical degree, it is thereby strengthened and will do more good or bad ac-
cording to its nature and the aspect it has.  On the other hand, if a planet
is in its exaltation sign, highly elevated and in a critical degree, its as-
pects will be exceedingly powerful and make themselves felt much more in the
life than would otherwise be the case.

                      MERCURY BEFORE AND AFTER THE SUN

   Another  important point which is only too often overlooked is the  posi-
tion of Mercury with regard to the Sun.   When Mercury is in a lower  degree
of  the same sign as occupied by the Sun,  or in any degree of  a  preceding
sign,  he rises before the Sun and, so to speak, carries the rays of the Day
Star forward.   But when he is placed in a higher degree of the same sign as
the Sun or in the sign following that occupied by the Sun, then he rises af-
ter the Orb of Day and is, so to speak, overshadowed.  Therefore it has been
found that when Mercury, the planet of mind, logic and reason,  rises BEFORE
the Sun,  it gives a keener, better intellect than when he follows the lumi-
nary.


[PAGE 413]                                       THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION

                         ARE YOU HELPING YOUR STARS?

   One not infrequently hears students of Astrology express their  annoyance
at the way the stars work.   They complain that the evil directions are  al-
ways  on time and marked in their effect,  while very often the good  direc-
tions  seem to have little or not influence and they wonder why.   Have  you
ever realized that you cannot possibly get something for nothing,  any  more
than you can create something out of nothing.   This holds good whether  you
want a loaf of bread, a position, favors, or anything else.   If at any time
you  seem to get something without paying for it,  you will have  to  settle
later,  and  settle with interest,  for it is nature's law of  Justice  that
nothing is given for nothing.  There must be an equivalent in one way or an-
other;  the  scales may be tipped in one direction for a long time,  but  as
surely  as the pendulum swings equally to one side of the neutral point,  so
surely  will  the scales of justice swing,  and swing until the  balance  is
reached.

   This  holds  good in Astrology;  it is said that "God helps the  man  who
helps himself;"  you may also say that THE STARS HELP THE MAN WHO HELPS HIM-
SELF,  for they are God's ministers and it should always be remembered  that
THE STARS SHOW TENDENCIES, THEY MARK TIMES WHEN OPPORTUNITIES ARE RIPE,  BUT
THEY NEVER UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES COMPEL ANYONE TO ACT IN THIS, THAT OR THE
OTHER  MANNER.   But neither are the directions haphazard events,  they  are
lessons and experiences for us,  of which we may avail ourselves, or not, as


[PAGE 414]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

we choose within certain limits.   For instance,  the Moon comes to a square
of Mars, and it will bring to us an opportunity to lose our temper,  and get
into trouble thereby,  then when the trouble is over and we sit down to  re-
flect  on the occurrence we will most likely say to ourselves:   Well,  what
fools we were to allow a little thing like that to play havoc with our  hap-
piness.  On the other hand if the Astrological student uses his knowledge in
the  proper manner,  then he should know what the effect of the Moon  square
Mars will be,  he should resolve beforehand to be calm and say:   Here is an
opportunity for me to rule my stars.   I am going to keep my temper well un-
der control so that no matter what happens, I shall maintain my equilibrium.
Then, when the opportunity comes along to lose his temper he may stand firm.
Although  he may feel the passions surging WITHIN,  he may  stand  outwardly
quiet,  keep a cool head and when the danger is past he will have  gained  a
victory  and learned the lesson which it was intended he SHOULD  learn.   Or
suppose  it  is a square of the Moon to Saturn;  this will cause  people  to
worry and look upon the dark side of life,  but the astrological student may
say to himself when such a configuration is approaching:  No, I am not going
to worry;  worry will not help matters, it hinders, because it takes from me
all my strength, wherewith otherwise I could overcome conditions.   I am go-
ing to look at the bright side of the matter and see what I can do to remedy


[PAGE 415]                                       THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION

this trouble.

   As a matter of fact most of the things we worry about never come to pass,
and  if  the student can learn under this planetary direction  to  keep  his
equilibrium,  to stop worrying,  then he has ruled his stars and learned  an
important lesson.  Thus, if he helps his stars be learning the lessons which
they re endeavoring to teach him, the evil directions will not have the same
power over him as if he simply sits down and folds his hands saying:  "Well,
I  cannot help it,  I am under the evil directions and naturally things  are
bound  to  go  wrong in every particular ."   There is in  the  horoscope  a
dominant factor,  namely,  the Individual Will; bear in mind that the  HORO-
SCOPE SHOWS ONLY TENDENCIES AND IT HAS NO POWER WHATEVER TO COMPEL YOU; COM-
PULSION  IS  FROM  WITHIN YOURSELF.   You, in the final  analysis,  are  the
dominant factor in that horoscope, and can by an exercise of sufficient will
power rule your stars.   It is admitted that we are all weak,  and therefore
not able to exercise the necessary will power at all times;  but that is ex-
actly why these evil directions are sent to us,  to enable us to cultivate a
stronger  will to do the right thing at the right time and it  depends  upon
ourselves whether we shall be compelled by circumstances from without or  by
our own will from within.   Surely that is the proper way,  and astrological
students above all other people ought to be able to guide their lives safely
amid the rocks and shoals of existence,  because  they  have proper warning,


[PAGE 416]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

they know what is coming, and they should prepare for it.

   On  the other hand it is asked:   Why do the good directions not bring  a
corresponding measure of benefit?   And the answer to that question is,  for
the  same lack of co-operation.   It is as absolutely necessary to help  our
stars in one direction as to hinder them in the other.  Are you out of a po-
sition  with perhaps the family exchequer running low and no means in  sight
wherewith to replenish it;  but your hopes centered upon a strong  favorable
direction such as perhaps a trine of the progressed Moon to the ruler of the
Sixth House or the Sun?   Under these conditions you feel sure,  from an as-
trological  standpoint,  that you are going to obtain a good position  which
will put you on easy street.   Very well,  you may be sure that the opportu-
nity will come, but do not expect it to be laid in your lap without a single
effort on your part; if a thing is worth having it is worth going after,  it
is worth making the very  best efforts to get it; do not neglect any detail,
dress yourself carefully,  but not showily when you go to see the person who
has it in his power to bestow the favor, remember, first impressions are im-
portant;  have all your ammunition ready in the shape of recommendations and
everything  else that you would have were you not depending upon  an  astro-
logical aspect to help you get the position.   Use every proper means if im-
pressing the prospective employer with your ability and you may depend  that
your  effort  will  be  successful, for YOU HAVE HELPED YOUR STARS, you have


[PAGE 417]                                       THE DOCTRINE OF DELINEATION

grasped your opportunity.  Or, are you about to embark in a business venture
with some one else and you feel very confident because the Moon is trine  to
the  Sun  and Venus in the Seventh House?   Be careful that you do  not  lay
aside your caution on that account,  thinking that under such a direction no
one can come into your partnership who is not all right.  If you do, you ne-
glect  your part and you will have no reason whatever to blame the stars  if
later  on  it is shown that the person is not all you expected  him  to  be.
Nothing is needed in the world today in the same degree that we need  common
sense,  and this applies to the department of astrology, as well as to every
other  department of life.   Opportunity may be likened to a toboggan  slide
between  ourselves and our desires;  it is necessary for us to make  an  ad-
equate  initial effort in order to launch our  sled upon this  incline,  but
once we have done our part,  then everything will go along swimmingly  under
favorable  directions,  for then the stars are with us to impress others  in
our behalf,  or to strengthen our penetrative power so that we may know what
is best for us.

   If you want to know positively the power of directions, even transits, as
will call the actual position of the stars in the sky, take an ephemeris and
note the moon's aspects for the current month.   When the Moon is in opposi-
tion to Mars you will find in people a general lack of energy and  ambition,
they would rather tear  down than build.  When we have a conjunction of Mars


[PAGE 418]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

and the Moon,  people will be active and energetic,  but impulse rather than
common sense will govern, hence they will accomplish little good, and may do
harm without intention.  But when the Moon and Mars are trine, there will be
a general desire among people to do something of a constructive nature,  and
they will meet with success in such efforts.  And last, but not least,  when
the Moon is square to Mars it will make people irritable,  quarrelsome,  de-
structive, ready to fly at each other, unreasonable and unmanageable.



[PAGE 419]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

                                 CHAPTER XIX

                         MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

   When we wish to study the character,  disposition and temperament of any-
one  we must first realize that the mind is the keystone of the arch of  the
human personality.  But character, disposition and temperament do not depend
so much upon the quality of mind,  whether it be keen,  sharp,  and alert or
slow and plodding,  as upon what channels it takes for its expression.   In-
tellects  of the first magnitude are sometimes put to perverted use  to  the
detriment  of the community and the individual who thus misuses  his  divine
heritage,  while a slow and very inferior mind may minister to many in lowly
but loving meekness and reap sheaves of soul-growth thereby.  Thus it is not
sufficient to determine the quality of the mentality; we must also ascertain
what  is the channel of its expression.  To judge that or any  other  matter
thoroughly  really  involves  consideration of the  horoscope  as  a  whole,
separately and apart from its bearing upon all other matters.  But in a gen-
eral  way  the character and disposition may be learned fro the  Sun,  Moon,
Mercury, Ascendant and the ruling planets.

   It has  become  the  custom  of  many astrologers to take the lord of the


[PAGE 420]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

rising sign as the ruler of the horoscope.   That is correct in Medical  As-
trology because the Ascendant represents the body, but when we want to judge
the character which is the combination of all the forces focused through the
horoscopical wheel of life the matter is different.   Then we must find what
planet has the most dominant influence in the life and that is then the life
ruler  regardless  of whether or not it is the ruler of the  Ascendant.   To
find  that  planet look first to the lord of the Ascendant.   If he  is  el-
evated, essentially dignified or angular and strongly aspected, remember, it
matters  not whether the aspects are good or bad as long as they  are  close
and plentiful (for if it were only the good aspects that made the ruler then
there  would be only good people in the world.   But we know that there  are
people  of all shades of character and therefore it is necessary  to  select
the ruler according to the aspects,  regardless of whether they are good  or
bad),  and above all,  if the aspects are close, then the lord of the Ascen-
dant is also the ruling planet,  for he will exercise the most potent influ-
ence in the life.

   On  the  other hand if another planet is more highly  elevated  than  the
ruler of the Ascendant, if it is exalted, essentially dignified or placed in
an angle and its aspects re more plentiful or closer than the aspects of the
lord of the Ascendant,  the judge that that planet will be the ruler of  the
horoscope and exercise a dominant  influence  in  the life regardless of the


[PAGE 421]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

fact that it is not the ruler of the rising sign.

   But  if  there  are two planets running neck-and-neck  in  the  race  for
rulership,  so to speak,  with no strongly marked difference in favor of one
or the other so that it is difficult to make a choice,  do not utterly  dis-
card one and choose the other, for then they will both be very active in the
life and must be classed as co-rulers.

                       THE INFLUENCE OF RULING PLANETS

                                WELL ASPECTED

THE SUN AS RULING PLANET

   When the vital,  courageous and ambitious well aspected Sun is ruler,  it
gives dignity to the whole nature,  a lofty price that would not stoop to do
anything small,  mean or degrading,  a fine and noble courage that may  show
itself on occasion as much by disdainfully ignoring the attacks of an adver-
sary whom he considers too far beneath his notice as by a fight to the death
for a principle.  There is an intense craving for recognition and leadership
which will make it very difficult for him to occupy a subordinate  position;
also an intense warm-hearted, affectionate and demonstrative nature.

VENUS AS RULING PLANET

   When the refined,  luxurious and musical well aspected Venus is ruler  of
the horoscope it gives tender, loving, even amorous nature which craves love


[PAGE 422]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

as we all desire air, for love is the very life breath of such people.  They
are extremely fond of children and usually have many pets which serve as av-
enues for their expression of love.  They are also pleasure-loving and  fond
of social intercourse,  neat and artistic in their ideas and in the  decora-
tion of their homes.   They love jewelry and anything else that adds  beauty
to the life;  they are luxurious in all their tastes,  very amiable and much
beloved by all;  their greatest faults is an inordinate love of ease and  an
aversion to soiling their hands.

MERCURY AS RULING PLANET

   When  Mercury the planet of reason, expression and dexterity is the  well
aspected life ruler it gives a keen,  quick-witted mind which craves  knowl-
edge  as a thirsty man craves water and absorbs it as readily,  a mind  that
solves,  apparently without effort, the most intricate problems.  Thus there
is  ability  in the various branches of mental endeavor,  science  and  lit-
erature, but these people are also very apt and forceful orators and have an
extraordinary  dexterity so that they can usually turn their hands  to  any-
thing.   They  are  fond of traveling and very successful  as  salesmen  and
agents.


[PAGE 423]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

THE MOON AS RULING PLANET

   When  the romantic,  imaginative and restless well aspected Moon  is  the
life ruler,  the people born unders its influence are indeed rolling  stones
and far fields always look greenest to them.   Therefore they have an  over-
whelming  desire for travel and change which generally does not permit  them
to stay in one place longer than necessary to earn the money which will  en-
able them to go to the next.   They have a most vivid and fanciful  imagina-
tion and a romantic nature entirely foreign to any practical endeavor; list-
less,  restless  and unstable as the tide that comes and goes,  flotsam  and
jetsam upon the sea of life.  They are generally mediumistic, though usually
unconsciously so, but are otherwise quite harmless through utterly irrespon-
sible and untrustworthy where anything requiring an effort is concerned.

SATURN AS RULING PLANET

   When  the serious,  sagacious and profound well aspected Saturn  is  life
ruler,  the people born under its influence are of a profoundly  thoughtful,
serious  nature.   They have a keen sense of responsibility and are full  of
forethought,  hence trustworthy and reliable advisors;  they are systematic,
orderly,  and have good executive ability,  frugal in their tastes,  thrifty
and  saving;  just  to  a  degree,  but  their  justice  is  cruel, hard and


[PAGE 424]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

untempered but the slightest degree of mercy.   They are chaste,  sober  and
exemplary in their lives but they have neither mercy nor pity for those  who
are  unable to overcome faults or habits or who otherwise become  delinquent
to the laws of society.  They care little or nothing for pleasure or the so-
ciety of others and generally keep their own counsel and company;  they  are
highly respected, esteemed and trusted in the community but neither care for
nor merit the LOVE of their fellow men.

JUPITER AS RULING PLANET

   When the jovial, genial and generous well aspected Jupiter is life ruler,
the  people  born  under his influence are ensouled by a  great  desire  for
honor,  respect and esteem in their community.   Therefore they aspire to be
pillars in the church,  legal lights,  or to fill an honored position in the
pulpit;  failing  this they enter by preference one of the  progressions  as
lawyer or doctor.  They are cordial, genial people with a jovial smile and a
hearty  handshake that make one glad to meet them wherever the go,  so  they
are  always welcome.   They are law-abiding and just but inclined to  temper
their  justice with mercy;  and while they themselves live lives beyond  re-
proach  they are kind,  forgiving and lenient to those of a weaker  morality
whose lives are smirched by sin and crime, hence they are  philanthropic and


[PAGE 425]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

always ready to give to charity and benevolent work.   They are not only re-
spected and esteemed but beloved in the community where they reside.

MARS AS THE RULING PLANET

   When the enthusiastic,  energetic,  constructive and militant Mars is the
well  aspected life ruler,  the people born under the influence of this  dy-
namic  rays are eager for the fray and battle of life.   They  are  ensouled
with  an ardent desire to conquer the world.   To them it does not  so  much
matter  what they do so long as it affords an adequate outlet for  the  con-
structive energy which,  figuratively speaking, threatens to burst them  un-
less released.  The bigger and more difficult the undertaking, the more they
exult;  hence they become the pioneers and pathfinders of civilization,  the
engineers  and contractors who build our cities and the highways and  byways
that connect them, who develop the resources of the world and turn them over
to others to use.   They are extremely impatient of restraint and will brook
no interference with their plans or methods.  These people govern others and
bend them to their will by the whiplash of sheer force for they have neither
tact  nor diplomacy but win by the merit of might.   They earn money  easily
and spend it as lavishly and foolishly.  They are extremely  extravagant and


[PAGE 426]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

when  reverses come they are down and out for the time being but they  never
stay down,  the indomitable inner force soon accomplishes rehabilitation and
with it the old reckless ways of living reassert themselves.   They are gen-
erally foolhardy to a degree, hence liable to accidents and a violent end.

URANUS AS RULING PLANET

   When  the original,  romantic and eccentric well aspected Uranus is  life
ruler the character is idealistic, unconventional and utopian.  These people
are  generally out of patience with the conventional ways of living and  de-
termined i their efforts and endeavors to break the shackles of society  and
live a bohemian life.   They are full of fads and given to usually  beliefs,
too advanced for the majority.   At the same time they are pioneers of a new
age  in which many of the ideas we now consider utopian will be modified  so
that they will be held by all.   These people are also the inventors of  the
world,  in  touch with the higher worlds where ideas merge from  the  Divine
Mind  to impinge upon the minds of those who are sufficiently  sensitive  to
grasp  them and bring them to birth for the use of humanity.   The  Uranians
are very headstrong and always ready with an argument to defend their  ideas
and secure a convert to their cults; odd in dress, in food,  in ideas,  they
are a class apart.


[PAGE 427]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET


NEPTUNE AS RULING PLANET

   When the occult and mystical well aspected Neptune is life ruler we  have
a  person of a most peculiar power whose chief mark is a strange  expression
of  the  eye which must be seem to be appreciated.   It is as if  he  looked
right through and through whatever is before him, but it is not necessary to
discuss this type for there are so few that they are very seldom encountered
by  the average astrologer and only an occultist can know and judge  another
occultist.

                THE INFLUENCE OF THE AFFLICTED RULING PLANETS

   When the life rulers are afflicted by the conjunction, parallel,  square,
or opposition from the other planets,  especially from the malefics--Saturn,
Mars,  Uranus and Neptune--they affect the life in an inimical manner  which
may be outlined as follows:

THE SUN AS RULING PLANET

   When the cowardly and arrogant afflicted Sun is life ruler,  people  born
under  his  debilitating influence are egotistical in the extreme,  full  of
swagger,  self-importance and arrogance.  If they obtain authority over any-
one  whom they think they can overawe they will rule such dependent  with  a
rod  of iron,  trample upon his tenderest feelings without a twinge of  con-
science or compunction, but if they themselves come under the  authority  of


[PAGE 428]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

another these spineless weaklings will then cringe,  creep and cater to  the
slightest  whim of their master though they hate him with an intense  hatred
that  is only kept in check by their fear.   They whine and wheedle  at  the
faintest frown though ready to spring and devour him if only they dared.  It
is the signature of one of the most despicable characters in the gamut.

VENUS AS RULING PLANET

   When  the  slovenly,  slothful and lazy afflicted Venus is ruler  of  the
horoscope the persons are sensual and profligate, untidy and slatternly,  of
depraved,  perverted tastes and utterly disreputable in their conduct;  they
are  social parasites.   They use loud and obscene language and are fond  of
music of a clanging,  jarring nature.  They love revelry and debauch,  their
affection expresses itself in coarse lusts, unbridled passion, free love and
moral perversion.  They revel in spangles and tinsel, loud,  clashing colors
and cheap imitations of beauty and worth.

MERCURY AS RULING PLANET

   When the untruthful, dishonest and clumsy afflicted Mercury is life ruler
the people under his influence are either entirely mentally unsound so  that
they must be confined for their own good in proper institutions, or they are
so  cunning  that  they  are  able  to  hide their mental bias and prey upon


[PAGE 429]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

society as thieves,  pick-pockets,  defaulters and criminals of similar  na-
ture.  They are notoriously untruthful and prefer misleading others to tell-
ing the truth, even where it is of no benefit to them.  They are either dull
of  comprehension or of such consummate cunning that they seem to be  driven
by a resistless force to get the nest of some unsuspecting person.  They ex-
cel  as confidence men,  badgers and in similar unsavory occupations,   They
are thoroughly unreliable and dishonest in all their dealings;  neurotic and
perverted,  scabs on society.   These people are also inveterate talkers and
always ready to criticize,  slander or ruin the reputation of others.   They
are a menace to society in all their activities.

THE MOON AS RULING PLANET

   When  the changeable and visionary afflicted Moon is life ruler it  makes
the persons extremely restless and averse to labor of any kind,  fidgety and
always  on the move;  if they cannot travel from one city to  another,  they
move from one house to another and from one situation to another as often as
possible  and they infuse the same restlessness into whosoever they come  in
contact with.  If the afflictions are very severe the mind suffers and their
mental phases coincide with the changes of the orb of night.


[PAGE 430]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

SATURN AS RULING PLANET

   When the morbid,  melancholy and malicious afflicted Saturn is life ruler
he robs life of all joy and brightness so that these people become  recluses
and melancholy misanthropes; so miserly and avaricious that they will starve
themselves  and forego the comforts of life even when they have ample  means
to satisfy them.   They are cruel,  hard and suspicious of the acts and  mo-
tives  of others and if they take up work as a detective they  become  human
ferrets,  blood-hounds who will hound their prey to death and gloat over his
misery.   If anyone frustrates such people they will hold spite forever  and
aim to get even, if it takes a lifetime.  But the end of these people is al-
ways bad,  sometime or other they overreach and fall into the trap they have
set  for others.   They usually die an ignoble death and the world  gives  a
sigh of relief when they pass out.

JUPITER AS RULING PLANET

   When  the indolent,  bombastic and egotistical afflicted Jupiter  is  the
life  ruler  the person is often a parasite on the social tree,  a  gambler,
confidence man and speculator,  sporty, fond of display and ostentation;  he
wears loud clothing,  paste diamonds and cheap jewelry.   He is usually  met
with in pool rooms,  on race tracks and in similar places;  playing poker or
playing the ponies are among his favorite  means  of earning a living; he is


[PAGE 431]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

very loud and egotistical anxious to attract attention no matter how; he of-
ten figures in court proceedings on account of shady transactions or immoral
conduct or unpaid bills,  for he is an adept at obtaining credit for  every-
thing he wants and never pays the price of his expensive tastes if there  is
any way of avoiding a settlement of his debts.   Among the laboring class he
usually figures as a demagogue and agitator,  inciting to strikes and riots,
but  he is always ready to sell out a striking union to the  employers.   We
find them among the typical Italian padrones, as keepers of sweat-shops, and
in similar occupations.

MARS AS RULING PLANET

   When the arrogant, egotistical and foolhardy afflicted Mars is life ruler
the person is an egotist of the first water,  bound to attain to his  wishes
by force or destruction if other means fail;  in fact he prefers to bulldoze
others  to do his will rather than to have them submit without  a  struggle.
He is a first-rate slave driver, section boss on the railway, in a construc-
tion camp and similar places,  a liar,  braggart,  bouncer,  or pugilist,  a
daredevil wiling to risk his life and the lives of others at any moment  and
in any undertaking.


[PAGE 432]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

URANUS AS RULING PLANET

   When the stubborn, erratic and independent afflicted Uranus if life ruler
the  mentality is usually so obsessed in one direction or another that  such
people  become fanatics and generally also there is an excessive  sensuality
and perverted taste.  They are always ready and anxious for an argument as a
means  of  airing their ideas but they are so hypnotized by their  own  par-
ticular  fad that they are never convinced and can never see when the  argu-
ment goes against them.   They always espouse the most radical and unconven-
tional ideas.

NEPTUNE AS RULING PLANET

   When  the mediumistic,  neurotic and self-indulgent afflicted Neptune  is
life ruler,  the persons are of a dreamy, neurotic and negative nature,  apt
to become the medium of disembodied spirits or even obsessed by them.   They
are  likely  to  evolve psychic powers of a low grade  such  as  involuntary
clairvoyance,  crystal gazing, etc., and if they are unable to develop these
faculties  they  often simulate mediumship and other psychic gifts  for  the
purpose  of  duping  or defrauding others.  They have a  strong  faculty  of
imitation and easily become adepts at deception.


[PAGE 433]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

                      THE SIGNS AS MENTAL SIGNIFICATORS

   When the CARDINAL Signs,  Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn,  are on the
angles, that is to say, the Ascendant, Midheaven, Fourth and Seventh Houses,
it is a general indication that the person is mentally alert, quick to grasp
an idea, active and enthusiastic in whatever work he undertakes; one who has
organizing and executive ability and is capable of carrying whatever  enter-
prise he may start to success;  a bold,  brave indomitable spirit.   This is
especially true when many planets are in Cardinal Signs and these people may
be classed as the business men of the world.

   When the FIXED Signs, Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius are on the angles
it indicates a thoughtful but slow and plodding type of mind which  requires
time to come to a decision.  They always look before they leap but when they
have made up their minds they adhere to the course mapped out with a remark-
able  patience and perseverance which in the end insure success.   They  are
very reliable and can be depended upon to keep their word and meet their ob-
ligations.  Their principal fault is that they are too apt to get into a rut
and become narrow-minded.   They are very original and may be classed as the
inventors  of the world.   These delineations are especially true when  many
planets are in Fixed Signs.

   When the COMMON Signs, Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces,  are on the
angles  the  mind is flighty and superficial, wavering and versatile.  These


[PAGE 434]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

people are often very quick to grasp a point and form a decision,  but  just
as ready to forget and change their minds.  They are adepts at imitation and
often  pretend  to virtues or abilities entirely foreign  to  their  nature.
They  are  easily swayed by the winds of emotion;  one moment  they  may  be
highly  elated over some small matter and the next a trifling  trouble  bows
them  down  to  earth.   They are inconstant and  unreliable  in  all  their
dealings  with  others because they do not know their minds two  minutes  in
succession.   They constitute the agents and middlemen of the  world,  where
they occupy a subordinate or serving position.   These delineations are par-
ticularly apt when many planets are in Common Signs.

                       MENTAL EFFECT OF THE RISING SUN

   When there are no planets on the Ascendant the rising sign has  consider-
able influence on the type of mind.

ARIES  rising gives an energetic,  enthusiastic and ambitious type of  mind,
but inclined to rash and impulsive acts and a quick temper.

TAURUS rising gives a stubborn, headstrong and selfish nature, envious, cov-
etous and malicious when angered.

GEMINI rising gives a quick,  alert and versatile mind,  easily adaptable to
conditions but so fluidic that it lacks the ability absolutely essential to


[PAGE 435]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

sustained effort and lasting success.

CANCER  rising  gives a negative,  imaginative and receptive type  of  mind,
sometimes of a rather morbid nature, reserved and mistrustful; but when such
a  person has made up his mind to do something he is usually very  tenacious
in his adherence to his ideas; sympathetic, hospitable and kind.

LEO rising gives a frank, open, ambitious mind; a powerful will and a proud,
honorable  and  kind disposition but inclined to be  hasty,  quick-tempered,
sensual and apt to go to extremes.

VIRGO gives a critical,  scheming and ingenious mind,  able to evolve  ideas
galore  but usually lacking the initiative to carry them out unless  prodded
by others.  These people are very selfish, self-centered and reserved.  They
do not take other people into their confidence and they seldom become really
familiar with anyone.

LIBRA  rising  gives an easy-going but kindly and sympathetic type  of  mind
which  is unable to grasp or cope with the exigencies of existence.   There-
fore  these  people drift along the stream of life,  taking as much  of  the
sweet  as  they can get and using every effort to avoid  the  bitter.   They
crave approbation and in return adore their friends and are usually bound up
in them.


[PAGE 436]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

SCORPIO rising gives a dual type of mind.   This is one of the most mystical
of the twelve signs.   Some times it is symbolized as an eagle  representing
the lofty, aspiring type soaring as does the eagle into the ether.  At other
times it is typified as a serpent which crawls in the dust,  and again as  a
scorpion.   There is also considerable occult significance in the fact  that
the  serpent has the sting in its head and the scorpion has it in its  tail.
But for the present purpose we will judge the two latter as one.

   The Scorpio type of mind denoted by the eagle is thoughtful, reserved and
inclined to lofty ideals' dignified in demeanor, proud and with perfect con-
trol of the temper.  These people are very reserved and generally keep their
own counsel.

   The  other  type when Scorpio is represented by the serpent  is  entirely
different;  deceitful,  shrewd and secretive; past finding out;  sensual and
unforgiving; jealous and passionate, with a very sharp tongue and fiery tem-
per.

SAGITTARIUS rising gives an energetic, aspiring,  benevolent mind but rather
lacking  in ambition.   These people are usually of an ardent,  affectionate
disposition and sometimes very demonstrative.

CAPRICORN rising gives a tactful,  diplomatic,  deep and thoughtful type  of
mind but selfish,  envious and covetous.  These people are apt to get into a


[PAGE 437]                                        MIND AND THE RULING PLANET

rut  and become very narrow,  and when they are crossed they hold spite  and
plan revenge.   They are self-reliant and persistent in whatever they under-
take.

AQUARIUS rising gives a good intellect,  a friendly,  sympathetic and humane
disposition,  but these people are very original and independent;  they will
brook  no interference with their vagaries and pursue their own  course  re-
gardless of what others say or think,  sometimes even against their own rea-
son and just to assert their independence.

PISCES  rising  gives a sentimental and romantic type of mind,  inclined  to
worry and restlessness,  apt to turn to the occult,  and to mystical  ideas.
The mind is very sensitive and often takes in the conditions of others  with
the effect of unsettling and troubling the person.


[PAGE 438]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                 CHAPTER XX

                              YOUR LUCK IN LIFE

   Health,  wealth  and happiness are to most people the  prime  objects  of
life,  and whoever has them is rightly considered lucky,  though as we  have
endeavored to show, luck is very closely linked to merit, and we have earned
what  we have either in this or former lives and what we lack in fortune  or
ability we may acquire in this or later lives by good use of our  opportuni-
ties.

   Thus health and disease,  vocational ability,  social and financial  for-
tunes, marriage, etc., are shown in the horoscope as outlined in the follow-
ing pages.

                             HEALTH AND DISEASE

   The  subject of health and disease is thoroughly elucidated in that  part
of the book which deals with medical astrology, but those who do not care to
go  into  the depths of the subject will find the  following  general  hints
helpful in determining the matter for ordinary purposes.

   The  main indicators of health and disease are the Sun,  Moon and  Ascen-
dant,  together with the planets in the First House or just above the Ascen-
dant.  The twelve signs of the Zodiac confer a vitality of differing degrees


[PAGE 439]                                                 YOUR LUCK IN LIFE

and when there are no planets near the rising sign it is of much greater im-
portance than otherwise.  The signs may be classified as follows:

   Aries, Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Sagittarius are strongly vital signs.

   Gemini, Virgo, Libra and Aquarius are moderately vital.

   Cancer, Capricorn and Pisces are signs of weak vitality.

   Both the Sun and the Moon affect health in all horoscopes, but the Sun is
the  particular  significator of health for men and the Moon  has  the  same
function in a woman's horoscope.  Thus, if a boy is born at a New Moon which
is a total eclipse,  he will have very poor chances of surviving.   The same
may be said of a girl born at the Full Moon when that is eclipsed.

   If the Sun is strong by sign,  well aspected by Mars or by the  benefics,
if he is in essential dignity,  exaltation or elevation in a male horoscope,
it indicates the possession of a strong vitality and presages a life blessed
by good health.   If the Moon is similarly placed in a woman's horoscope the
same effect follows.

   On  the  other hand if the luminaries are in weak signs in the  Sixth  or
Twelfth Houses or afflicted by Saturn, Mars, Uranus or Neptune, the vitality
is weak and much sickness will result unless, from childhood,  care is taken
to follow the laws of health and hygiene.  It must be borne in mind that THE
HOROSCOPE SHOWS ONLY  TENDENCIES  which work out infallibly if we drift with


[PAGE 440]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the tide of life.   But on the other hand, it does no show the factor of the
human  will,  which being divine may enter in and by proper efforts  in  the
right direction correct, at least in a large measure, the limitations.

   It  is a good indication of health when a strong sign rises with  Jupiter
or Venus close to the Ascendant and well aspected.  But if a weak sign is on
the  Eastern  horizon,  and the life forces are further  sapped  by  Saturn,
Uranus or Neptune in the rising sign, a life of suffering is foreshown.

   With respect to Mars it has been found that his presence on the Ascendant
strengthens the constitution when he is well aspected but predisposes to fe-
verish or inflammatory complaints when he is afflicted.

   It should be understood that the Sun, Venus, Mercury,  the Moon and Jupi-
ter do not afflict save by square or opposition, whereas the conjunction and
parallel of Saturn, Mars, Uranus and Neptune are considered inimical as well
as the square or opposition.

   The afflictions from CARDINAL Signs, Aries, Cancer,  Libra and Capricorn,
indicate  acute  ailments which usually run their course and leave  no  par-
ticular trace.

   The afflictions from FIXED Signs, Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius,  in-
dicate organic or hereditary tendencies  which  are difficult to conquer and


[PAGE 441]                                                 YOUR LUCK IN LIFE

usually become chronic.

   The diseases indicated by COMMON Signs,  Gemini,  Virgo,  Sagittarius and
Pisces,  are convertible.  They may be entirely overcome or run their course
until they become chronic, according to the mental temperament of the person
in whose figure these are found.

   The places of the malefics, Saturn, Mars,  Uranus or Neptune always indi-
cate weak points in the anatomy and the place of Saturn is particularly sen-
sitive;  no  matter  whether he is afflicted or not it is  always  a  danger
point.   By knowing the parts of the body which are ruled by  the  different
signs  it is easy to see where the weak limits in the chain of human  health
are located:

   Aries rules the head and face.
   Taurus rules the neck and throat.
   Gemini rules the lungs, arms and shoulders.
   Cancer rules the breast and stomach.
   Leo rules the heart and dorsal region of the back.
   Virgo rules the abdominal parts.
   Libra rules the kidneys and lions.
   Scorpio rules the genitals and rectum.
   Sagittarius rules the hips and thighs.
   Capricorn rules the knees.
   Aquarius rules the ankles.
   Pisces rules the feet.


[PAGE 442]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   Thus if Saturn is placed in Leo it will indicate that the person is  sub-
ject to heart trouble.  If it is in Pisces it will indicate cold feet.   The
hot and inflammatory Mars afflicted in Aries, the sign which rules the head,
would indicate a tendency to fevers, and so on with the other planets.

   There  are  three  nebular  spots located in  the  Zodiac,  namely:   The
Pleiades in 29 degrees of Taurus,  the Ascelli in 6 degrees of Leo,  and An-
tares  in 8 degrees of Sagittarius.   If the Sun or Moon are found in  these
placed and afflicted by a malefic, be careful of the eyes,  or if one of the
malefics  are  in one of these places afflicting the Sun and Moon  the  same
judgment holds good.

   With  these  general indications the ordinary student should be  able  to
judge a horoscope with respect to health and disease and should a more thor-
ough examination be desired,  a study of the matter in the part dealing with
Medical Astrology will give the necessary information.

                      THE SOCIAL AND FINANCIAL FORTUNES

   The vocation,  financial fortune and social standing, like all other mat-
ters,  should be judged from the whole horoscope, but the Second, the Sixth,
the   Eighth  and  the  Tenth  Houses  with  their  lords  are   the   chief
significators.

   THE  SECOND HOUSE indicates what the person earns by his  efforts.   When
Jupiter, Venus, the Sun, the Moon or Mars are  well  aspected  and placed in


[PAGE 443]                                                 YOUR LUCK IN LIFE

the  Second House or lord thereof they attract wealth commensurate with  the
number and closeness of their aspects and their position as to dignity,  ex-
altation or elevation.   But if Saturn, Mars, Uranus or Neptune are elevated
and afflict the Sun and Moon it is a sure sign of financial misfortune.

   Jupiter in the Second House is moderately generous but Mars makes a  free
spender and consequently the money he brings goes about as fast as it comes.
Saturn in the Second House,  or its ruler, makes the person thrifty and sav-
ing but he will find it difficult to make ends meet unless Saturn is in  his
exaltation  sign Libra and well aspected by Jupiter;  then fortune comes  by
legacy  or in the latter part of life.   Uranus in the Second House  and  in
good  aspect  to Jupiter or the Sun and Moon is also a  good  indication  of
financial fortune.

   THE EIGHTH HOUSE:  The planetary influences which bring financial fortune
through  the  person's own efforts when operating through the  Second  House
bring  money  through  the marriage partnership  or  legacy  when  operating
through the Eighth House.   Thus Jupiter in the Eighth House indicates money
by marriage or partnership if well aspected by the Sun,  Moon,  Venus or the
lord of the Seventh House.   But if aspected by Saturn or Uranus it shows  a
legacy.   Mars  in the Eighth House well aspected shows a husband,  wife  or
partner with good earning capacity but too free a spender.   The other indi-
cations  enumerated  as  acting  through  the  Second House may be similarly


[PAGE 444]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

applied to the Eighth.

                                  VOCATION

   When the majority of the planets are well aspected and above the Earth or
when the Sun is in good aspect to the Moon and Mars it is generally easy for
the person to obtain a situation and when the Sun is in good aspect to Jupi-
ter  it gives promise of a lucrative occupation.   But when the majority  of
the planets are below the Earth,  weak and afflicted,  or when the Sun is in
bad  aspect to the Moon,  Mars or Jupiter,  it is usually difficult for  the
person to find employment.

   To find the employment in which the person will be most likely to succeed
consider the nature and significance of the Houses and Signs which hold  the
majority of the planets.

   When the majority of the planets are in the FIERY Signs,  Aries,  Leo and
Sagittarius,  it indicates as profitable the occupations in which the metals
and  fire  play a prominent part, as those of machinist,  engineers,  chauf-
feurs, smiths, cutlers, barbers, surgeons, soldiers, also hazardous and dan-
gerous vocations.

   If  the  majority of the planets are found in the EARTHY  Signs,  Taurus,
Virgo and Capricorn, it indicates success in agriculture, horticulture, gar-
dening, land, mines, timber, building materials and as contractor for build-
ings, houses; dealers in foodstuffs, both in the raw and cooked states, such


[PAGE 445]                                                 YOUR LUCK IN LIFE

as  the  grocery business,  in restaurants or as grain  dealers,  chemistry,
etc.,  also dress goods and clothing;  in short everything that comes out of
the Earth to nourish, clothe and shelter the physical body.

   If the majority of the planets are in the AIRY Signs,  Gemini,  Libra and
Aquarius,  it indicates success in clerical, literary, or artistic pursuits;
occupations principally involving brains or travel, as those of accountants,
bookkeepers,  agents,  messengers, expressmen, architects,  civil engineers,
mechanical draughtsmen and designers, lecturers,  scientists,  electricians,
aviators,  inventors, and all similar occupations in which mind is a princi-
pal factor.

   If the majority of the planets are in the WATERY Signs,  Cancer,  Scorpio
and  Pisces,  the  person  should  seek  occupations  in  which  fluids  are
prominent, as those of sailors and fishermen, ship builders and ship owners,
marine  engineers,  and other occupations on  shipboard,  manufacturers  and
dealers in liquid refreshment, etc.

   The ruling planet also has an important bearing on the life-work, and the
occupations signified by the different planets may be stated as follows:

   THE SUN as life ruler indicates a leader--it may be of a state as king or
president,  or of a province or city as governor or mayor,  or has head of a
corporation, whether large or small.  Thus when the Sun is life ruler, espe-
cially if it is in the Tenth House, it indicates  a  government  position or


[PAGE 446]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

employment in an executive capacity.

   VENUS as life ruler indicates employment in an artistic capacity as a mu-
sician, singer, actor, theatrical agent, manufacturer or dealer in millinery
or fancy goods,  laces,  embroidery and women's clothing;  candy and confec-
tions, flowers or ornaments, etc.

   MERCURY  as  life ruler indicates success in literature or on  a  lecture
platform;  as printers, publishers, or bookkeepers; as school teachers,  ex-
press agents, mail carriers, commercial travelers, stenographers,  secretar-
ies, office workers and all other clerical and traveling occupations.

   THE MOON as life ruler signifies success as traveling salesmen,  railroad
employees,  ticket agents and other positions concerned with the transporta-
tion  of the public;  car builders, hotel keepers,  dealers in fluidic  com-
modities,  nurses,  obstetricians, fishermen, sailors and others employed on
shipboard and in the shipping trades.

   SATURN  as life ruler signifies all employments connected with the  earth
such as agriculture, gardening, mines, building and building materials; dip-
lomats,  judges politicians,  police, jailers,  detectives,  secret  service
agents  and  all  whose  work is accomplished by stealth and strategy; night


[PAGE 447]                                                 YOUR LUCK IN LIFE

workers and those engaged in slow, plodding, laborious work.

   JUPITER as life ruler signifies success in the professions,  as  lawyers,
judges,  clergymen, ambassadors, cabinet officers, senators,  congressmen or
other positions of public trust; bankers, financial agents, physicians,  be-
nevolent or social workers.

   MARS as life ruler signifies employments in which iron and sharp  instru-
ments are prominent, as used by soldiers, surgeons, smiths, founders,  engi-
neers, and in all dangerous occupations.

   URANUS  as  life ruler signifies employment in  which  air,  electricity,
thought power and genius are chief factors, as those of inventors,  electri-
cians,  aviators and those interested in supernormal or  superphysical  sub-
jects such as psychology,  phrenology, magnetic,  divine or mental  healing;
also in connection with co-operative colonies, socialism, and advanced ideas
of life and living.

   NEPTUNE as life ruler indicates occupations involving the occult,  watery
and  psychic elements;  also those in which fraud and deception are  rampant
because the genuine psychic article is so rare.   These occupations  include
those of astrologers,  mediums and clairvoyants.  Neptune also produces some
highly inspirational musicians.


                             --- END OF FILE ---


