[PAGE 512]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                CHAPTER XXVI

                         MUTUAL PLANETARY DIRECTIONS

   Aspects  between  two progressed planets have little or no  potency,  but
when a planet by progression comes into aspect with a RADICAL planet it  op-
erates for good or ill, according to its nature and the power of the radical
planet in the horoscope.

   In  the  following paragraphs we have set down these tendencies,  and  it
matters  not whether Venus progresses to a good aspect with radical  Saturn,
or Saturn progresses to a good aspect with radical Venus, the effects are as
noted in the first paragraph,  and similarly with the other aspects  follow-
ing.

   VENUS  AND SATURN IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION indicate a period of  fi-
nancial success, gain in social prestige and emotional exaltation.   The re-
ligious and devotional nature is likely to receive an awakening.

   VENUS AND SATURN IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION indicate a period of  sor-
row and trouble.  Both the health and reputation suffer; delays, disappoint-
ment  and losses are frequent and annoying.  Others will seek to impose upon


[PAGE 513]                                       MUTUAL PLANETARY DIRECTIONS

the person;  death or separation from loved ones, and other disagreeable ex-
periences are met.  The mind is gloomy and inclined to worry.

   MERCURY AND SATURN IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a good time to  un-
dertake new responsibilities, make investments in houses, mines,  lands,  or
similar property,  undertake study or research work of a deeper nature,  and
make important contracts which will prove of lasting benefit to the  person.
It is a good time to deal with agents and elderly persons,  or to  undertake
journeys for a serious purpose.

   MERCURY AND SATURN AFFLICTED BY PROGRESSION indicate a time of delays and
disappointments with a tendency to look upon the dark side of things.  It is
a  bad time to undertake new responsibilities,  deal with elderly people  or
sign legal papers.  The person is liable to slander and loss of reputation.

   MARS AND SATURN IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a period when the per-
son will be very enterprising yet tactful and diplomatic, courageous but not
foolhardy,  strong  and dignified,  better able to  shoulder  the  responsi-
bilities  of life than at any other time.   If he makes proper use of  these
qualities he will gain financially,  also in honor and respect among his as-
sociates.


[PAGE 514]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   MARS  AND SATURN IN BAD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION make the person very  fool-
hardy and impulsive,  hence there is a liability to accident under these di-
rections.   Occasionally  when  the  horoscope shows  violence  there  is  a
tendency to crime and bloodshed which may result in imprisonment.   All  the
vices  of the character seem to come to the fore at this time,  and loss  of
temper is the least among them.   The greatest care should be taken to  keep
the animal nature down and hold a firm check upon all the undesirable traits
in the character.

   VENUS AND JUPITER IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION bring financial benefits,
and a rise in social position and esteem.  They make the person more kindly,
sympathetic and considerate,  hence increase his popularity.   It is a  good
time  to travel and enjoy life.  Investments made under this  influence  are
generally successful, and the health is excellent, or if the person has been
ill this marks the period of convalescence and recuperation, when life takes
on a rosier hue.

   VENUS AND JUPITER AFFLICTING EACH OTHER BY PROGRESSION indicate a  period
of  mild  domestic trouble,  small financial losses and a  tendency  to  ex-
travagance  and wastefulness,  pecuniary difficulties on that  account,  and
possibly lawsuits.  There is also some loss of prestige in the social circle
or the person's environment.


[PAGE 515]                                       MUTUAL PLANETARY DIRECTIONS

   MERCURY  AND JUPITER IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION indicate a  very  suc-
cessful period in the life.  The person will probably travel with both plea-
sure and profit to himself.   He will have good health and be in the best of
spirits,  so that life in general will take on a very rosy hue.   There  are
indications  of gain by investments and in the general course of  his  busi-
ness,  and it is a good time to enter into contracts and  agreements,  espe-
cially for literary work.

   MERCURY  AND  JUPITER AFFLICTED BY PROGRESSION mark a  troublesome  time,
when  the person is liable to become involved in lawsuits and lose  thereby.
He  should be very careful not to sign papers or enter into agreements,  for
there will be trouble and misunderstanding,  involving financial loss;  also
if he lends money to other people they will endeavor to impose upon him  and
defraud  him,  and dealings with agents and commission men  should  be  par-
ticularly avoided.

   MARS AND JUPITER IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a period in life when
the  usual conservatism of Jupiter is blended with the  martian  enthusiasm,
hence  the person will become more enthusiastic and enterprising so that  he
is  likely to extend his business and be successful in gaining an added  in-
come  thereby.  He  should  be careful, however, not to overreach himself at


[PAGE 516]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

this time.  These aspects also work upon the devotional nature and may some-
times express themselves as religious enthusiasm when the person turns  over
a new leaf and becomes a better man or woman than before.

   MARS AND JUPITER IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a danger point in the
life  when the person is liable to wreck his whole career by acts which  are
definitely  criminal,  or  by losses due to  ostentatious  display  and  ex-
travagance,  or  he may become interested in some wildcat mining  scheme  or
speculate  upon the stock exchange in such a reckless manner that  he  loses
all he has and becomes a pauper.   The health is also likely to suffer under
this direction;  impurities of the blood may cause growths,  tumors,  boils,
and kindred afflictions.   Altogether it is a very evil time and the  person
should guard himself very carefully against yielding to any of these  influ-
ences.

   VENUS  AND MARS IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a period  of  pleasure
and  enjoyment  when an attachment of a lasting nature may  be  formed  with
someone  through an enthusiastic courtship.  There are also  indications  of
financial gain and an increase of popularity.

   VENUS AND MARS IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a period of impulse and
recklessness when the person  is  likely  to act in a most indiscreet manner


[PAGE 517]                                       MUTUAL PLANETARY DIRECTIONS

that may cause great trouble in life.  If married there will be some  domes-
tic unhappiness.   Financial losses and discredit are also shown,  therefore
the  person should endeavor to hold himself in check and avoid  any  tempta-
tions that may come in his path.

   MERCURY AND MARS IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a time when the  per-
son  is generally successful in all affairs of life,  especially  where  the
mental qualities are called into action, for this will make him keen, shrewd
and sharp, quick to see a point and grasp an advantage, hence financial gain
is  also indicated.   This is a good time for advertising and extending  the
person's  business,  entering  contracts and agreements,  and  dealing  with
agents and middlemen.  It is good for literary work of a lighter nature, and
an excellent time to travel.   The health is good and there is a feeling  of
cheerfulness, joy and optimism.

   MERCURY AND MARS IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION.   This is a critical time
when  the person is liable to act on impulse,  to speak and act  impulsively
without  due deliberation and forethought,  hence he is likely to  get  into
trouble  or  suffer loss through the sharp practices of  other  people.   He
should  therefore  be  very  careful not so sign papers or enter into agree-


[PAGE 518]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

ments,  and there is danger of accident and trouble if the  person  travels.
It is a bad time for changes or extensions of business.

   MARS AND URANUS IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION indicate a good period  for
perfecting inventions or starting new and original enterprises.  Friendships
of a beneficial nature are often made under these directions, and not infre-
quently a psychic awakening takes place through associations with people, or
groups of people, or a Uranian nature.

   MARS AND URANUS IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a very dangerous  time
in the person's life.   There is a liability to accidents of an unusual  na-
ture, a breaking up of conditions, estrangement from friends, and the person
is liable to find himself suddenly alone in the world.  Sometimes there is a
psychic awakening but always of an undesirable nature.

   MARS AND NEPTUNE IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION mark a time of good health
and high spirits for advanced people,  but the majority do not feel its  in-
fluence.

   MARS AND NEPTUNE IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION produce a neurotic  condi-
tion in those who can respond to its influence.   There is also a  liability
to be defrauded or victimized in some unaccountable manner.


[PAGE 519]                                       MUTUAL PLANETARY DIRECTIONS

   VENUS AND URANUS IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION give a probability of some
financial gain and it is likely that the person will have what he  considers
a good time,  involving probably a romantic love affair, but it is likely to
leave  a sting behind.   This direction insures the aid of friends  and  in-
creases the popularity of the person for the time being.

   VENUS  AND URANUS IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION are a fruitful  cause  of
domestic unhappiness and divorce.  This direction is likely to bring about a
scandal on account of immoral conduct.  Lawsuits and financial loss are also
threatened, and the person is likely to act in a most erratic manner.

   VENUS AND NEPTUNE IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION indicate a period of suc-
cess  in social matters,  happiness and enjoyment of life for those who  can
respond to this direction.  The person is particularly apt to indulge in the
building of air castles and the concoction of roseate daydreams which are of
no particular avail but serve to make the period thoroughly enjoyable.

   VENUS AND NEPTUNE IN EVIL ASPECT BY PROGRESSION are likely to bring  some
psychic  experience  of a disagreeable nature connected with  mediumship  or
hypnotism.  There is a tendency  to  sensuality and immorality, occasionally


[PAGE 520]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the  indulgence  in drinks or drugs which will cause sorrow and  trouble  to
come to the person.

   MERCURY  AND URANUS IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION make the native  active
mentally,  bring unexpected pleasures, give impulse to mental work, make the
mind keen and give a desire for occult investigation.  Many are attracted to
and become interested in altruistic and humanitarian work under this aspect.

   MERCURY  AND URANUS AFFLICTING EACH OTHER BY PROGRESSION make the  native
unconventional,  erratic and restless,  create a nervous,  wayward state  of
mind, and may bring unexpected lawsuits.

   MERCURY  AND NEPTUNE IN GOOD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION.   The mind is  active
and inclined to the study of Astrology and Mysticism.   The native is apt to
travel  by  water  and  make changes.  Only those  who  are  advanced  along
spiritual lines feel the effect of Neptune.

   MERCURY AND NEPTUNE IN BAD ASPECT BY PROGRESSION.  Persons under this in-
fluence should guard against investments in corporations.   The mind is dis-
turbed  by  evil thoughts and the morals may be lax if such  a  tendency  is
shown in the natal horoscope.

   SATURN,  JUPITER,  URANUS, AND NEPTUNE seldom form aspects by progression
on account of their slow motion.


[PAGE 521]                                                          TRANSITS

                                CHAPTER XXVII

                                  TRANSITS

   The  progressed positions of planets are the principal  significators  of
events,  but the transitory positions of the planets in space at the  actual
time  of  events strengthen or weaken effects of aspects in  the  progressed
horoscope,  according  to whether they are akin in nature or not.   The  New
Moons  are particularly potent.   These so-called TRANSITS are seen  in  the
ephemeris for the actual year of events.

                      THE INCREASING OR DECREASING MOON

   Among the points in Astrology which bother the beginner, is when the Moon
is  increasing in light or decreasing.   Astrological works  frequently  use
these  expressions  when tabulating the effects of  various  configurations.
But so far as we know, no explanation has been given elsewhere, and we trust
the following may make the subject clear to students.

   Each  month the Moon comes into conjunction with the Sun,  and this  con-
junction of the luminaries is called a LUNATION OR NEW MOON.  After the con-
junction or New Moon,  she may be seen in the western sky close to the hori-
zon as a tiny crescent; day by day the lighted surface grows larger;  at the
time of the opposition to the Sun she has increased her light to the fullest


[PAGE 522]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

capacity, and at that time we speak of her as a full Moon; she then rises in
the  eastern  sky at the same time as the Sun sets in the west.   From  that
time  for  another fortnight it will be observed that she  rises  later  and
later  in the night;  at the same time the illuminated part of her disc  de-
creases until just before the next conjunction or new Moon, early risers may
observe  her in the eastern sky just before sunrise as a tiny crescent  upon
the vault of heaven.   Thus the Moon is increasing in light from the time of
its conjunction or new Moon to the opposition,  or full Moon,  and from  the
full Moon to the net New Moon it is decreasing in light.   The times of  the
New Moon, Full Moon and eclipses are given each month in our SIMPLIFIED SCI-
ENTIFIC EPHEMERIS, which see.

   Transits of Neptune,  Uranus, Saturn and Jupiter are important,  and when
the  student has become familiar with the mysteries of the progressed  horo-
scope  but  not before,  he may profitably write the ephemeral  position  of
these planets outside the progressed horoscope and watch their effect,  also
the aspects of the New Moons.  But be sure, at first, to keep the progressed
horoscope down to first principles,  for fancy aspects are "the stuff dreams
are  made of,"  the warp and woof of astrological romances which  fade  away
into  moonshine and leave the astrologer discomfited.   It is  comparatively
easy to wield the shuttle of imagination with natal, progressed and transit-


[PAGE 523]                                                          TRANSITS

ing planets,  each set with its corresponding houses, and a multitude of as-
pects to choose from, but simple judgment based upon the prime essentials of
a horoscope is almost invariably justified by events.

        SATURN TRANSITING THE RADICAL SUN, MOON, VENUS OR JUPITER.
These transits lower the vitality and act as a damper on the spirits of  the
person;  there is a tendency to colds, gloom and melancholy, delays and dis-
appointments,  and  if Saturn should turn retrograde passing  and  repassing
these points, quite a long time of trouble and anxiety results.

   SATURN  TRANSITING  SQUARE  OR  OPPOSITION  RADICAL  SUN,  MOON, VENUS OR
JUPITER.
These  aspects will produce similar effect to the conjunction but  more  in-
tense, and falls, bruises, or broken bones are often additional results.

   SATURN  TRANSITING  SEXTILE  OR  TRINE  THE  RADICAL  SUN, MOON, VENUS OR
JUPITER.
These aspects do not produce any benefit so far as has been observed.

         SATURN TRANSITING SEXTILE OR TRINE THE RADICAL MERCURY.
These aspects steady the mind and make it more capable of concentration when
Saturn is direct, or when he is retrograde, but aspecting Mercury by  SQUARE


[PAGE 524]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

OR OPPOSITION,  fear,  worry,  melancholy, gloom and trouble result; then it
is also dangerous to travel.

           SATURN TRANSITING RADICAL MARS, URANUS OR NEPTUNE.
These transits always mark a time of trouble, NO MATTER WHAT THE ASPECT, but
the nature of the trouble is best determined by the house and sign where the
afflicted planet is located.

                SATURN TRANSITING THE RADICAL MIDHEAVEN.
This aspect always produces slander, discredit and loss of prestige.

     SATURN TRANSITING THE SIXTH OR TWELFTH HOUSE OR THE ASCENDANT.
These  positions  have an inimical effect on the health,  according  to  the
signs which are on the cusps of these houses.

   JUPITER  TRANSITING  SEXTILE  OR TRINE THE RADICAL SUN, VENUS, MERCURY OR
MOON.
These  aspects bring health,  happiness and financial benefit in  accordance
with  the radical indications.   If Jupiter retrogrades he is not so  active
but the period of good is protracted by his repeated direct passage over the
good aspects.


[PAGE 525]                                                          TRANSITS

   JUPITER TRANSITING SQUARE OR  OPPOSITION  RADICAL SUN,  VENUS, MERCURY OR
MOON.
These aspects are not very evil because evil is out of harmony with the  ba-
sic nature of Jupiter.

   JUPITER TRANSITING OR ASPECTING RADICAL SATURN, MARS, URANUS OR NEPTUNE.
These  aspects produce no appreciable results because the basic  natures  of
these  planets are entirely different.   This is on the same principle  that
tuning forks of different pitch do not respond to one another.

                 URANUS TRANSITING RADICAL SUN OR VENUS.
These transits produce romantic attachments,  Bohemian pleasures,  unconven-
tional experiences; when Uranus is retrograde this may last for a long time,
but when he is in evil aspect immorality, scandal and divorce may result.

             URANUS TRANSITING RADICAL MARS, MOON OR MERCURY.
These  aspects of Uranus to the radical Mars.   Moon or Mercury have a  ten-
dency to make the person rash, reckless, foolhardy and erratic, sometimes to
the  point  of insanity if other testimonies in the  horoscope  concur,  the
phase of the mental disturbance varying from violence when induced by  Mars,
to mild idiocy when produced by the Moon.


[PAGE 526]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   URANUS TRANSITING OR IN EVIL ASPECT TO RADICAL SATURN, MARS OR NEPTUNE.
These transits cause trouble according to the house and sign where Uranus is
located.  Good aspects produce no benefit as far as we have observed.

                NEPTUNE TRANSITING RADICAL MERCURY OR MOON.
These aspects bring a spiritual awakening accompanied by dreams and  visions
of an elevating nature.  These aspects are also good for travel, but the bad
aspects  make the mind unclean,  polluted and criminal if the radical  horo-
scope allows, so that the person may commit a crime and suffer imprisonment.
Mediumship is also often the result of these transits.


[PAGE 527]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                   PART II

                              MEDICAL ASTROLOGY

               AFTER AN EXTENSIVE PRACTICE OF MANY YEARS, THE
                FOLLOWING TREATISE IS SUBMITTED AS EMBODYING
                   THE AUTHORS' EXPERIENCE, GAINED BY SUC-
                     CESSFUL DIAGNOSIS OF MANY THOUSANDS
                                OF HOROSCOPES

  [But we want to make it clearly understood that we do not cast horoscopes
for money,  or tell fortunes.  Our work is a strictly humanitarian undertak-
ing.  To us, Astrology is a phase of religion.]


[PAGE 528]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                               CHAPTER XXVIII.

                         ASTRO-DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASE

   Parents  have an exceptional opportunity and may lay up much treasure  in
heaven by judicious care of growing children based upon knowledge of tenden-
cies to disease revealed by the horoscope.  The writers rely implicitly upon
the  horoscope's  testimony and though in a few cases doubts have  been  ex-
pressed as to the correctness of our diagnosis,  because it varied from that
of practitioners in personal touch with the patient, subsequent developments
have invariable vindicated our judgment and proved the far-reaching penetra-
tion of Astrology which is as much in advance of the X-Ray as that is  supe-
rior to a candle, for even though the X-Ray were capable of illuminating the
entire body to such an extent that we could see each individual cell in  ac-
tivity,  it  could only show the conditions of the body at a  given  moment.
But the horoscope shows incipient disease from the cradle to the grave, thus
it gives us ample time to apply the ounce of prevention, and maybe escape an
illness, or at least, ameliorate its severity when disease has overtaken us.
It indicates to the day when crises are due.   Thus forewarned,  we may take
extra precautionary measures to tide over the  critical point.  It indicates


[PAGE 529]                                        ASTRO-DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASE

when the inimical influences will wane and fortifies us to bear present suf-
fering with strength born of the knowledge that recovery at a specific  time
is certain.   Thus Astrology offers help and hope in a manner obtainable  by
no other method; for its scope is wider than all other systems,  and it pen-
etrates to the very soul of Being.

                            AN IMPORTANT WARNING

   If  letters of fire that would burn themselves into the consciousness  of
the reader were obtainable, we would spare no effort to procure them for the
purpose of warning students on some particular points in connection with the
practice of medical Astrology; these are:

   Never tell a patient a discouraging fact.
   Never tell him when impending crises are due.
   Never predict sickness at a certain time.
   Never, NEVER predict death.

   It is a grave mistake, almost a crime, to tell sick persons anything dis-
couraging,  for it robs them of strength that should be husbanded  with  the
utmost care to facilitate recovery.  It is also wrong to suggest sickness to
a  well person,  for it focuses the mind on a specific disease at a  certain
time, and such a suggestion is liable to cause sickness.  it is a well known
fact that many students in medical colleges feel the symptoms of every  dis-
ease they study, and suffer greatly in consequence  of  auto-suggestion, but


[PAGE 530]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the idea of impending disease implanted by one in whom the victim has  faith
is much more dangerous;  therefore it behooves the medical astrologer to  be
very cautious.  If you cannot say anything encouraging, be silent.

   This warning applies with particular force when treating patients  having
Taurus or Virgo rising or the Sun or Moon in those signs.   These  positions
predispose the mind to center on disease,  often in a  most unwarranted man-
ner.   The Taurean fears sickness to an almost insane degree, and prediction
of disease is fatal to this nature.  The Virgos court disease,  in order  to
gain sympathy, and though professing to long for recovery, they actually de-
light in nursing disease.  They beg to know their symptoms, the crises,  and
delight  in  probing the matter to the depths;  they will plead  ability  to
stand full knowledge and profess that it will help them;  but if the practi-
tioner  allows himself to be enticed by their protestations,  and does  tell
them,  they wilt like a flower.   They are the most difficult people to help
in any case,  and extra care should be taken not to aggravate their  chances
by admissions of the nature indicated.

   Besides,  thought the writers have used medical Astrology for many  years
and with astonishing success,  and though Astrology, as a science,  is abso-
lutely  exact and infallible,  it must not be forgotten that  there  remains
nevertheless the chance of mistaken judgment on the part of the practitioner
and the chance that the person whose horoscope he is judging  may assert his


[PAGE 531]                                                          TRANSITS

will  to such an extent that it overrules the indication in  the  horoscope.
He  may change his mode of life without knowing what would have happened  if
he had gone on as before,  and thus he may be in no danger at the time  when
the tendency to sickness shown by the horoscope arrives;  it is cruel to un-
settle his mind in any case.  Naturally, the young student would be most li-
able  to make a mistake in judgment,  but no one is immune.   We remember  a
case that came to our notice recently.   One of the most prominent  European
astrologers predicted for a client in South Africa that on a certain date he
would have a severe haemorrhage of the lungs.   The poor man wrote to us for
help,  but though liability to colds in the lungs was shown, we saw no seri-
ous  trouble at the time predicted, nor has haemorrhage been experienced  in
the year elapsed between that time and the present writing.

   Some  students have a morbid desire to know the time of their own  death,
and probe into this matter in a most unwarranted manner;  but not matter how
they  may seek to deceive themselves there are very few who have the  mental
and moral stamina to live life in the same manner,  if they knew with  abso-
lute certainty that on a certain date their earthly existence would be  ter-
minated.   That is one of the points most wisely hidden until we are to  see
on both sides of the veil,  and we do wrong,  no matter what our ground,  to
seek to wrest that knowledge from the horoscope.


[PAGE 532]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   Moreover,  it has been well said that "the doctor who prescribes for him-
self has a fool for a patient,"  and this applies to diagnosis of one's  own
horoscope with tenfold force,  for there we are all biased;  either we  make
too light of conditions,  or we take them too seriously,  particularly if we
investigate the time and mode of death.  We remember a case where an  intel-
lectual women,  principal of a private school in New York,  wrote asking for
admission to our correspondence class, "if we thought it worth while, as she
was going to die the first week in March."  She gave us all the aspects upon
which  she based her judgment,  and as one of the writers had  just  emerged
hale and hearty from similar configurations, she gave the lade in question a
good  talking  to  that straightened her out;  she told the  lady  she  (the
writer) expected to live to a ripe age.  Now that lady is thinking of a use-
ful life,  she has learned to forget death.   Astrology is too sacred to  be
thus misused.  Let the student forget about his own horoscope and devote his
knowledge to helping others;  then it will aid him in accumulating  treasure
in heaven as no other line of spiritual endeavor will.

                            PLANETARY POLARITIES

   When we study magnetism we are dealing with an invisible force; and ordi-
narily  we can at best state the way it manifests in the physical world,  as
is  the  case whenever we deal with any FORCE.   The physical world  is  the
world  of  effects;  the  causes  are hidden from our sight, though they are


[PAGE 533]                                              PLANETARY POLARITIES

nearer than hands or feet.   Force is all about us,  invisible and only seen
by the effects it produces.

   If we take a dish of water, for illustration, and allow it to freeze,  we
shall  see a myriad of ice crystals,  beautiful geometrical figures.   These
show the lines along which the water congealed and these lines are lines  of
force which were present before the water congealed; but they were invisible
until  the proper conditions were furnished them and they  became  manifest.
In  the same way there are lines of force going between the two poles  of  a
magnet;  they are neither seen nor felt until we bring iron or iron  filings
into the place where they are, when they will manifest by arranging the fil-
ings  in an orderly pattern.   By making the proper conditions we may  cause
any of the nature forces to show their effects--moving our street cars, car-
rying messages with lightning speed over thousands of miles, etc., etc.; but
the  FORCE itself is ever invisible.  We know that magnetism travels  always
at right angles to the electric current with which it manifests; we know the
difference  between  the  manifestations of the electric  and  the  magnetic
current,  so  dependent  upon one another, but we have  never  seen  either;
though they are about the most valuable servants we have today.

   Magnetism may be divided into "mineral" and "animal" magnetism, though in
reality they are one, but the former  has  very little influence upon animal


[PAGE 534]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

tissue, while the latter is generally impotent in working with minerals.

   The mineral magnetism is derived directly from lodestones which are  used
to  magnetize  iron,  and this process gives to the metal thus  treated  the
property of attracting iron.  This kind of magnet is very little used,  how-
ever,  as its magnetism becomes depleted,  is too weak in proportion to  its
bulk,  and  principally because the magnetic force cannot be  controlled  in
such a so-called "permanent" magnet.

   The "electro-magnet" is also a "mineral" magnet.  It is simply a piece of
iron wound around with many turns of electric wire; the strength of the mag-
net varies as the number of turns of wire,  and the strength of the electric
current that is passed through it.

   Electricity is all about us in a diffused state, of no use for industrial
purposes until it is COMPRESSED and forced through the electric wires by the
powerful ELECTRO-MAGNETS.   We must have MAGNETISM in the FIRST place before
we can get any electricity.   Before a new electric generator is started the
"fields,"  which are nothing but electro-magnets,  must be  magnetized.   If
that  is not done they may turn it till the crack of doom,  at any  rate  of
speed they please, and it will never light a single lamp nor move a grain of
weight; all depends upon the magnetism being there FIRST.  After this magne-
tism  is  once started it will leave a little behind when the  generator  is
shut down, and this so-called "residual magnetism"  will  be  the nucleus of


[PAGE 535]                                              PLANETARY POLARITIES

force to be built up each time the generator is started afresh.

   All bodies of plants, animals and men are but transformed mineral.   They
have  all  come from the mineral kingdom in the first  place,  and  chemical
analysis  of the plant,  animal and human bodies brings out the fact  beyond
cavil.  Moreover, we know that the plants get their sustenance from the min-
eral soil,  and both animal and man are eating mineral when they consume the
plants  as food;  even when man eats the animals he is  nevertheless  eating
mineral compounds, and therefore he gets with his food both the mineral sub-
stances and the magnetic force which they contain.

   This force we see manifesting in "Haemoglobin,"  or the red coloring mat-
ter in the blood,  which attracts the life-giving oxygen when it comes  into
contact with it in the millions of minute capillaries of the lungs,  parting
with it as readily when it passes through the capillaries which all over the
body connect the arteries with the veins.  Why is this?

   To understand this,  we must acquaint ourselves a little closer with  the
way magnetism manifests as seen in industrial uses.

   There are always two fields or a multiple of two fields in a generator or
motor,  every alternate "field" or magnet being "north-pole" and every other
one,  "south-pole."   If we wish to run two or more generators "in multiple"
and force their electricity into the same wire, the first  requisite is that


[PAGE 536]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the magnetic current in the field-magnets should run IN THE SAME DIRECTION.

   If that were not the case, they would not run together; they would gener-
ate currents going in OPPOSITE directions, blowing their fuses.   That would
be  because  the poles in one generator,  which should have  attracted,  re-
pelled,  and vice-versa.  The remedy is to change the ends of the wire which
magnetizes the fields;  then the magnetic current in one generator will  be-
come like the current of the other, and both will run smoothly together.

   Similar conditions prevail in magnetic healing; a certain vibratory pitch
and  magnetic polarity were infused into each of us when the stellar  forces
surged  through our bodies and gave us our planetary baptism at  the  moment
when we drew our first complete breath.   These are modified during our pil-
grimage of life,  but in the main their initial impulse remains  undisturbed
and therefore the horoscope at birth retains the most vital power in life to
determine our sympathies and antipathies as well as all other matters.   Nay
more, its pronouncements are more reliable than our conscious likes and dis-
likes.

   Sometimes  we  may meet and learn to like a person,  although we  have  a
feeling that he has an inimical influence on us for which we cannot account,
and  therefore strive to put aside;  but a comparison of his horoscope  with
our own will reveal the reason and if we are wise we heed its warning, or as
surely  as  the  circling  stars move in their orbits around the Sun we will


[PAGE 537]                                              PLANETARY POLARITIES

live to regret our disregard of this handwriting on the wall.

   But there are also many cases when we do not sense the antipathy  between
ourselves and a certain person,  though the horoscope reveals it,  and if we
see  the  signs when comparing the two horoscopes we may  feel  inclined  to
trust  our feelings rather than the stellar script of the horoscopes.   That
also will in time lead to trouble, for the planetary polarity is certain  to
manifest in time unless both parties are sufficiently evolved to rule  their
stars  in  a  large measure.   Such people are few and far  between  at  our
present stage of evolution.  Therefore we shall do well if we use our knowl-
edge of the stellar script to compare our horoscopes with those at least who
come intimately into our lives.   This may save both them and us much misery
and  heartache.   We would advise this course particularly with regard to  a
healer and his patients,  and with reference to a prospective marriage part-
ner.

   When anyone is ill, resistance is at the lowest ebb,  and on that account
he is then least able to withstand outside influences.  So the vibrations of
the  healer have practically unrestrained effect, and even though he may  be
ensouled by the noblest of altruistic motives, desiring to pour out his very
life  for the benefit of the patient, if their stars were adverse at  birth,
his vibratory pitch and magnetism are bound to have an inimical effect  upon
the patient.  Therefore it  is  of  prime  necessity  that any healer should


[PAGE 538]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

have a knowledge of Astrology and the law of compatibility,  whether he  be-
longs  to those who admittedly heal by magnetism and the laying on of  hands
or  to the regular schools of physicians,  for the latter also infuse  their
vibrations  into  the  patient's aura and help or hinder  according  to  the
agreement of their planetary polarity with that of the patient.

   What  has been said with regard to the healer applies with tenfold  force
to the nurse, for he or she is with the patient practically all the time and
the contact is so much more intimate.

   For healer,  nurse and patient, compatibility is determined by the rising
sign, Saturn, and the Sixth House.  If their rising signs agree in nature so
that all have fiery signs rising, or all have earthy, airy,  or watery signs
rising,  they are harmonious, but if the patient has a water sign rising,  a
nurse or a doctor with fiery signs will have a very detrimental effect.

   It is also necessary to see that Saturn in the horoscope of the nurse  of
healer  is  not  placed  in any of the degrees  of  the  zodiac  within  the
patient's Sixth House.

   With respect to marriage the planetary polarity is shown principally by a
consideration of the feminine Moon and Venus in a man's horoscope,  for they
describe  his attractions towards the opposite sex,  and in a woman's  horo-
scope  the  masculine Sun and Mars have a similar  significance.   If  these
planets  are  harmoniously  configurated  and  the signs on the cusps of the


[PAGE 539]                                              PLANETARY POLARITIES

Seventh Houses of the prospective partners agree, harmony will prevail,  es-
pecially if the Sun, Venus or Jupiter of one person is placed in the Seventh
House  of the other.   But if the planets mentioned afflict one another,  or
the  Seventh Houses of the parties are out of harmony,  or if Saturn,  Mars,
Uranus or Neptune of one is in a degree included in the Seventh House of the
other,  it is the handwriting on the wall which indicates that the planetary
polarities are inharmonious and that sorrow is in store for them if they al-
low  their evanescent emotions to draw them together in a bond  of  unhappi-
ness; for it is easy to change the field wires on two electric generators so
that their polarities will agree,  but it is extremely difficult to  reverse
the planetary polarity of one person to make it agree with that received  by
another at his planetary baptism.


[PAGE 540]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                CHAPTER XXIX

                         THE LAW OF CORRESPONDENCES

   It is said in the Bible that God made man in His likeness, and from hoary
antiquity seers and sages have noted a correspondence between the MACROCOSM,
the great world, and the MICROCOSM, the little world, or man.  This is again
expressed  in the hermetic axiom which is the master-key to  all  mysteries:
"AS ABOVE,  SO BELOW."   Therefore we may note that the various parts of the
human  body  are correlated to different divisions of the  vaulted  arch  of
heaven and the marching orbs that move through it.   As the creative  forces
within  the womb act upon the ovum and gradually build the foetus,  so  also
the stellar rays from the macrocosmic body of mother nature are active  upon
man.  It is their activity which we note in the process of evolution whereby
that which is now man has come up through the lower kingdoms to his  present
stage  of  completion,  and it is by the same rays that  he  will  gradually
evolve  to  the divine stature where he will indeed be like  the  Father  in
Heaven,  consequently we may note the correspondences between the signs  and
planets and the different divisions of the human body as follows:


[PAGE 541]                                        THE LAW OF CORRESPONDENCES

                     PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF THE TWELVE SIGNS

ARIES rules the head,  the cerebral hemispheres,  the various organs  within
the head, and the eyes, but the nose is under the rulership of Scorpio.

   Thus  any affliction in Aries will react upon the head,  producing  head-
aches,  neuralgia, coma and trance conditions, diseases of the brain and ce-
rebral hemorrhages.

TAURUS rules the neck, throat, palate, larynx and tonsils, lower jaw,  ears,
and occipital region.   The cerebellum is also under the rule of Taurus,  so
are the atlas and cervical vertebrae,  the carotid arteries,  jugular veins,
and certain minor blood vessels.

   The  diseases to which these regions are subject are goitre,  diphtheria,
croup and apoplexy.   As each sign always reacts upon the opposite,  afflic-
tions  in Taurus may also produce venereal diseases,  constipation,  or  ir-
regular menses.

GEMINI  rules the arms and hands, shoulders,  lungs,  and the thymus  gland,
also  the upper ribs,  therefore afflictions in Gemini cause pulmonary  dis-
eases,  pneumonia,  pleurisy,  bronchitis,  asthma and inflammation  of  the
pericardium.

CANCER  rules the oesophagus,  stomach,  diaphragm,  pancreas,  the  mammae,
lacteals,  upper  lobes  of  liver,  and thoracic duct, hence afflictions in


[PAGE 542]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Cancer produce indigestion,  gas in the stomach,  cough,  hiccough,  dropsy,
gloom, hypochondria, hysteria, gall stones, and jaundice.

LEO rules the heart,  the dorsal region of the spine,  the spinal cord,  and
the  aorta,  therefore the afflictions in Leo cause regurgitation,  palpita-
tion,  faintings,  aneurism,  spinal meningitis, and curvature of the spine,
also  arterio-sclerosis  and  angina  pectoris,   hyperaemia,   anaemia  and
hydraemia.

VIRGO rules the abdominal region, the large and small intestines,  the lower
lobes of the liver,  and the spleen,  therefore afflictions in Virgo produce
peritonitis, tapeworm, malnutrition, interference with the absorption of the
chyle, typhoid fever, cholera, and appendicitis.

LIBRA  rules the kidneys,  the suprarenals, the lumbar region of the  spine,
the  vasomotor  system  and the skin,  hence afflictions  in  Libra  produce
polyuria,  or suppression of the urine,  inflammation of the  ureters  which
connect the kidneys with the bladder, Bright's disease, lumbago,  eczema and
other skin diseases.

SCORPIO rules the bladder, urethra, and genital organs in general,  also the
rectum and the descending colon,  the sigmoid flexure,  the prostate  gland,
and the nasal bones; hence afflictions  in  Scorpio  produce  nasal catarrh,


[PAGE 543]                                   PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF THE SIGNS

adenoids,  and polypi,  diseases of the womb and ovaries,  various  venereal
diseases,  stricture, and enlargement of the prostate gland,  irregularities
of the menses, leucorrhoea, rupture, renal stones and gravel.

SAGITTARIUS rules the hips and thighs, the femur,  ilium,  the coccygeal and
sacral regions of the spine,  the iliac arteries and veins,  sciatic nerves,
hence afflictions to Sagittarius produce locomotor ataxia, sciatica, rheuma-
tism, and hip diseases.  Furthermore, as each sign has an influence upon its
opposite, afflictions in Sagittarius may also cause pulmonary troubles.   It
is also noteworthy that broken bones are caused by this sign.

CAPRICORN governs the skin and the knees, but it has also a reflex action on
the stomach,  which is governed by the opposite sign Cancer.   Hence afflic-
tions in Capricorn produce eczema and other skin diseases, erysipelas,  lep-
rosy, and digestive disturbances.

AQUARIUS rules the ankles,  the limbs from the knees to the ankles,  and has
also a reflex action on its opposite sign Leo, hence afflictions in Aquarius
produce varicose veins,  sprained ankles, irregularities of the heart action
and dropsy.


[PAGE 544]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

PISCES  rules  the feet and toes.   It also has a reflex effect on  the  ab-
dominal region governed by the opposite sign,  Virgo,  hence afflictions  in
this sign indicate trouble and deformities of the feet,  intestinal diseases
and dropsy.   It also produces a desire for drink and drugs which may  bring
about  delirium tremens.   Consumption is sometimes found to be a  secondary
result of cold in the feet contracted by an afflicted Pisces.

                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF THE SUN

   The  Sun rules in the very first place the vital fluid which is  special-
ized through the spleen,  transferred to the solar plexus,  and thence  dis-
tributed over the whole body.  This vital fluid is invisible to ordinary hu-
manity,  but  to  those  gifted with the spiritual sight  it  appears  as  a
rose-colored fluid which is like the electricity in the wires of a telephone
or telegraph system.  When the wires designed to carry electricity are minus
the electric fluid they are dead and the telephone or telegraph  instruments
do not respond.   Similarly, when for some reason the invisible vitial fluid
ceases  to flow through any part of the human organism in  sufficient  guan-
tity, that part of the body will not perform its proper function, and there-
fore disease results, continuing until some obstruction has been removed and
the path cleared for the vital fluid.  On that account an afflicted Sun  al-
ways  causes  disease,  particularly  in a man's horoscope, and in a woman's


[PAGE 545]                                     PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF THE SUN

nativity the Moon,  which is the collector of solar forces,  takes the  same
office or function.  The heart and the PONS VAROLII, or vital knot, situated
in  the brain,  are the principal parts of the body ruled by the Sun.   When
the  Sun is well aspected in Leo or Aries radiant health may be looked  for.
But on the other hand, when he is afflicted he produces the various ailments
according to the sign wherein he is placed at the time.   These disabilities
may be set down as follows:

THE SUN AFFLICTED IN ARIES, the sign which rules the head,  gives a tendency
to aphasia, loss of identity, brain fever, cerebral haemorrhage,  and menin-
gitis, cerebral anaemia or congestion of the blood, faintings and headaches.

THE  SUN  AFFLICTED IN TAURUS gives a tendency to  quinsy,  diphtheria,  and
polypus of the nose.  In the Pleiades (Taurus 29), eye trouble.

THE  SUN AFFLICTED IN GEMINI gives a tendency to pleurisy,  bronchitis,  and
hyperaemia of the lungs.

THE SUN AFFLICTED IN CANCER gives a tendency to anemia,  dropsy,  dyspepsia,
and gastric fever.

THE SUN AFFLICTED IN LEO gives a tendency to palpitation of the heart, back-
ache, and spinal affections.  In the Ascelli (Leo 6), eye trouble.


[PAGE 546]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

THE  SUN  AFFLICTED IN VIRGO gives a tendency to interference with  the  as-
similation, peritonitis, typhoid fever, and dysentery.

THE  SUN AFFLICTED IN LIBRA gives a tendency to Bright's disease  and  erup-
tions  of the skin through overheated blood,  for Saturn rules the skin  and
Libra is his exaltation sign.

THE   SUN  AFFLICTED  IN  SCORPIO  gives  a  tendency  to  renal   calculus,
genito-urinary and menstrual disturbances, uterine and ovarian affections.

THE SUN AFFLICTED IN SAGITTARIUS gives a tendency to sciatica,  paralysis of
the limbs and pulmonary diseases.   If the Sun is in Antares (Sagittarius 8)
and  afflicted by one or more of the malefics there is danger of disease  of
the eyes.

THE  SUN  AFFLICTED IN CAPRICORN gives a tendency to rheumatism,  skin  dis-
eases, and digestive troubles.

THE  SUN AFFLICTED IN AQUARIUS gives a tendency to varicose  veins,  dropsy,
palpitation of the heart, and poor circulation.

THE  SUN AFFLICTED IN PISCES gives a tendency to perspiration of  the  feet,
also intestinal troubles, typhoid fever, et cetera.


[PAGE 547]                                       PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF VENUS

                         PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF VENUS

   On account of her rulership of Taurus and Libra, Venus is responsible for
a number of affections of the throat and kidneys,  also maladies due to gas-
tronomical indiscretions, lack of exercise, sedentary habits,  poor circula-
tion of the venous blood, excess of amorous indulgence and dissolute living,
hence she brings obesity,  tumors, cysts,  poor circulation,  venereal  dis-
eases,  tonsilitis,  and various other disorders.   Her general effect  when
placed in the twelve signs may be classed as follows:

VENUS  AFFLICTED  IN ARIES gives a tendency to catarrh in the  head,  mucus,
and, by reflex action in Libra congestion of the kidneys.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN TAURUS gives a tendency to mumps, headaches affecting the
occipital region, goitre, tonsilitis, and glandular swellings of the throat.
By  reflect  action in Scorpio this also brings venereal diseases  or  other
troubles peculiar to the genitals.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN GEMINI gives a tendency to corrupt blood, pulmonary inef-
ficiency, whitlows, warts, and dropsy.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN CANCER gives a tendency to distended stomach, gastric tu-
mor, and nausea.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN LEO gives a tendency to spinal affections,  backache  and
enlarged heart.


[PAGE 548]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

VENUS AFFLICTED IN VIRGO gives a tendency to weakened peristaltic action  of
the intestines, tumors, tapeworm, and worms in children.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN LIBRA gives a tendency to uremia and polyuria;  by reflex
action in Aries, headaches.

VENUS  AFFLICTED  IN  SCORPIO  gives  a  tendency  to  varicocele,  venereal
diseases, uterine prolapsis or tumors, painful menstruation and other female
complaints, and by reflex action in Taurus, throat affections.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN SAGITTARIUS gives a tendency to  tumors and kindred  dis-
eases in the hips,  and by reflex action in Gemini,  bronchial and pulmonary
affections.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN CAPRICORN gives a tendency to gout in the limbs, and,  by
reflex action in Cancer, digestive troubles, nausea and vomiting.

VENUS AFFLICTED IN AQUARIUS gives a tendency to varicose veins, and,  by re-
flex action in Leo, heart trouble.

VENUS  AFFLICTED IN PISCES gives a tendency to tender feet,  bunions,  chil-
blains,  gout, and, by reflex action in Virgo, abdominal tumors and intesti-
nal disorders.


[PAGE 549]                                     PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF MERCURY

                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF MERCURY

   Mercury  rules  Gemini and Virgo, therefore his afflictions  manifest  in
diseases  related to these signs, as bronchitis,  pulmonary and  respiratory
troubles.  He also rules the right cerebral hemisphere, the motor segment of
the spinal cord, and the vocal cords, hence locomotor ataxia and nervous and
vocal disorders are among his manifestations; so is deafness.  The following
effects may be noted when he is afflicted in the twelve signs:

MERCURY AFFLICTED IN ARIES  gives a tendency to brain fever,  nervous  head-
ache,  vertigo, neuralgia, and, by reflex action in Libra, nervous disorders
of the kidneys, and lumbago.

MERCURY AFFLICTED IN TAURUS  gives a tendency to stuttering,  hoarseness and
deafness,  and  by  reflex  action in Scorpio,  nervous  affections  of  the
genito-urinary system.

MERCURY  AFFLICTED  IN GEMINI gives a tendency to gout in  head,  arms,  and
shoulders, bronchitis, asthma, asphyxiation, pleurisy, and, by reflex action
in Sagittarius, nervous pains in the hips.

MERCURY AFFLICTED IN CANCER gives a tendency to nervous indigestion, phlegm,
flatulence, and drunkenness.

MERCURY AFFLICTED IN LEO gives a tendency to pain in the back, fainting, and
palpitation of the heart.


[PAGE 550]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

MERCURY AFFLICTED IN VIRGO gives a tendency to flatulence, wind colic, short
breath, and nervous debility.

MERCURY  AFFLICTED IN LIBRA gives a tendency to suppression of urine,  renal
paroxysms,  lumbago, and, by reflex action in Aries, vertigo,  nervous head-
aches and eye trouble.

MERCURY  AFFLICTED  IN  SCORPIO gives a tendency to  pains  in  bladder  and
genitals,  menstrual trouble, and, by reflex action in Taurus, stuttering or
hoarseness and deafness.

MERCURY  AFFLICTED IN SAGITTARIUS gives a tendency to pain in the  hips  and
thighs.  By reflex action in Gemini, cough, asthma and pleurisy.

MERCURY AFFLICTED IN CAPRICORN gives a tendency to rheumatism, especially in
the knees; pains in the back, skin diseases, melancholy; by reflex action in
Cancer, nervous indigestion, flatulence.

MERCURY AFFLICTED IN AQUARIUS gives a tendency to shooting or gnawing  pains
in the whole body,  varicose veins,  corrupt blood and,  by reflex action in
Leo, palpitation, and neuralgia of the heart.

MERCURY  AFFLICTED IN PISCES gives a tendency to gout in the feet,  or  they
are tender and subject to cramp,  or, by reflex action in Virgo,  a  general
weakness, lassitude, worry, and sometimes tuberculosis, deafness.



[PAGE 551]                                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF MOON

                       PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF THE MOON

   The  Moon rules the oesophagus and stomach,  the uterus and ovaries,  the
lymphatics and the sympathetic nervous system, the synovial fluid.  When af-
flicted she produces dropsical and menstrual troubles,  uterine and  ovarian
afflictions,  dyspepsia,  eye trouble,  and lunacy,  according to the  sign,
house and nature of the afflicting planet.  She has particular rule over the
mother during pregnancy.

THE  MOON AFFLICTED IN ARIES gives a tendency to insomnia,  headache,  leth-
argy, and weak eyes.

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN TAURUS gives a tendency to sore throat, and if in Tau-
rus 29 with the Pleiades and afflicted by Saturn, Mars, Uranus,  or Neptune,
eye trouble results; by reflex action in Scorpio, menstrual or other trouble
with the genitals.

THE  MOON  AFFLICTED  IN GEMINI gives a tendency to catarrh  of  the  lungs,
asthma, bronchitis and pneumonia, rheumatism in the arms and shoulders.  THE
MOON AFFLICTED IN CANCER gives a tendency to cancer of the stomach,  dropsy,
obesity, bloating, digestive troubles, and epilepsy.

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN LEO gives a tendency to backache,  disturbed  circula-
tion, convulsions, and heart trouble; if in Leo 6, eye trouble.


[PAGE 552]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN VIRGO gives a tendency to disorders in the bowels, ab-
dominal tumors, dysentery, and peritonitis.

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN LIBRA gives a tendency to Bright's disease, abscess of
the kidneys, uraemia; by reflex action in Aries, headache or insomnia.

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN SCORPIO gives a tendency to disturbed menses,  bladder
troubles, hydrocele, and other genito-urinary disturbances; by reflex action
in Taurus, throat troubles.

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN SAGITTARIUS gives a tendency to blood affections,  hip
disease,  and,  sometimes,  a broken femur;  by  reflex  action  in  Gemini,
asthma.

THE  MOON AFFLICTED IN CAPRICORN gives a tendency to  articular  rheumatism,
lack of synovial fluid,  eruptions of the skin, and by reflex action in Can-
cer, digestive troubles.

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN AQUARIUS gives a tendency to varicose veins, ulcers of
the leg, dropsy, and, by reflex action in Leo, hysteria, fainting, and heart
trouble.

THE MOON AFFLICTED IN PISCES gives a tendency to drink, drug habits,  tender
feet, and, by  reflex action in Virgo, abdominal disorders of various kinds.


[PAGE 553]                                      PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF SATURN

                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF SATURN

   Saturn is the planet of obstruction, crystallization and atrophy.  By his
action  the  circulation or passage of bodily fluids,  such  as  the  blood,
lymph,  or urine, is impeded, and by this stagnation waste materials are re-
tained instead of being eliminated.   Thus they form various deposits in the
body,  building the skeleton, which is CONSTRUCTIVE,  hardening the arteries
and  articulations,  which is DESTRUCTIVE.  Saturn rules the  gall  bladder,
where he forms the painful gallstones, and by virtue of his exaltation power
in  Libra he crystallizes the renal stones and gravel which cause such  suf-
fering  to those who have these concretions.   By retention of the  urea  he
causes the painful rheumatism and gout which often manifest in deformity  of
the  joints that so often disfigures and disables the  sufferers  therefrom.
He rules the pneumogastric nerve, and by his restrictive action through that
medium he may at any moment slow down the heart action, stop digestion, sup-
press the urine and stool under the emotions of fear and worry generated  by
him.  Thus he has the power to bring every bodily function to a standstill.

   Saturn also rules the teeth and the skin.  By his action the teeth decay,
leading  to malnutrition,  the synovial membranes are hardened,  making  the
spine and limbs rigid;  he makes the skin tough as the years go by.   Saturn
is  at home in Capricorn,  and by his reflex action in Cancer he  interferes
with  the peristaltic action which is necessary in the digestion of food; he


[PAGE 554]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

then  causes antiperistalsis,  or vomiting.  His general activities  in  the
body are destructive and tend to end the life of the organism.

   Saturn generally hurts by falls, bruises,  and colds.   He predisposes to
chronic and deep-seated ailments, and his victims are difficult to reach be-
cause he imbues them with fear, worry, and pessimism, so that they refuse to
believe in the possibility of a cure and cannot be induced to take a  cheer-
ful look on life.

   The  presence of Saturn in any part of the horoscope constitutes  an  af-
fliction  in  itself,  therefore we may note the following  effects  in  the
twelve  signs,  whether he is aspected by squares,  oppositions,  trines  or
sextiles,  but naturally his effects are somewhat more inimical when in evil
aspect.

SATURN IN ARIES  gives a tendency to headache, colds, catarrh, deafness, and
chills,  cerebral anaemia, dental decay, tartar, faintings, and,  by  reflex
action in Libra, renal disorders.

SATURN  IN TAURUS  gives a tendency to phlegm,  diphtheria,  quinsy,  mumps,
croup,  decay of the lower teeth, choking,  and by reflex action in Scorpio,
stricture, constipation and similar disorders.

SATURN IN GEMINI gives a tendency to rheumatic pains in shoulders and  arms,
bronchitis,  pulmonary consumption,  asthma, and, by reflex action in Sagit-
tarius, sciatica and hip diseases.


[PAGE 555]                                      PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF SATURN

SATURN IN CANCER gives a tendency to pyorrhoea, dyspepsia, gastric ulcer and
cancer,  nausea and belching, scurvy,  jaundice,  gallstones,  anaemia,  and
stricture of the oesophagus.

SATURN IN LEO gives a tendency to curvature of the spine,  muscular  ineffi-
ciency of the heart, weak back, arterio-sclerosis, and sclerosis of the spi-
nal cord.

SATURN IN VIRGO gives a tendency to weakened peristalsis of the  intestines,
abated absorption of chyle,  obstruction of the ILEUM CAECUM and  transverse
colon, appendicitis.

SATURN IN LIBRA gives a tendency to locomotor ataxia,  renal stones,  gravel
and sand, Bright's disease, suppression of urine, malnutrition, and,  by re-
flex action in Aries, headache, toothache, and other disorders of the head.

SATURN IN SCORPIO gives a tendency to sterility,  suppression of the menses,
stricture, constipation, haemorrhoids, and, by reflex action in Taurus,  na-
sal catarrh, hoarseness, phlegm, and other throat affections.

SATURN IN SAGITTARIUS gives a tendency to contusions of the hips and thighs,
sciatica, gout, and hip disease; by reflex action in Gemini, bronchitis, tu-
berculosis, and other Gemini affections.


[PAGE 556]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

SATURN  IN  CAPRICORN  gives a tendency  to  articular  rheumatism,  eczema,
erysipelas,  and  other diseases of the skin;  by reflex action  in  Cancer,
jaundice, gallstones, and dyspepsia.

SATURN IN AQUARIUS gives a tendency to weak ankles, easily sprained, and, by
reflex action in Leo, curvature of the spine, sclerosis and other affections
of the heart, back and arteries.

SATURN IN PISCES gives a tendency to cold feet, rheumatism and bunions, also
tuberculosis  due  to cold and wet feet,  and,  by reflex action  in  Virgo,
dropsy.

                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF JUPITER

   The liver is the great center of the Jupiterian activity;  there he forms
glycogen from the waste products of the portal blood-stream.  The great cen-
tral vortex of the desire body is also in the liver,  and when an extra  ef-
fort is to be made,  Mars draws upon the glycogen storehouse of Jupiter  for
fuel.   Saturn too is active in the liver, forming the gall, urea,  and uric
acid.

   It is somewhat difficult for the average student to segregate and combine
the  varied functions of this organ,  but if we bear in mind that Cancer  is
the  exaltation sign of Jupiter and the opposite sign Capricorn is the  home
of Saturn and the exaltation sign of Mars,  we shall more readily understand
that  the  great  benefic,  Jupiter,  endeavors  to  store  in the liver the


[PAGE 557]                                      PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF SATURN

glycogen so necessary to the bodily activity.  This, Mars,  the opposing ex-
altation ruler,  recklessly scatters by expenditure of muscular energy,  and
he  is aided and abetted in his destructive activities by Saturn,  who  pro-
duces gall and urea which he deposits during the muscular work as uric  acid
in the various parts of the body where it manifests as gout and  rheumatism.
Saturn also makes the liver torpid and causes constipation.

   Jupiter  rules the adrenals and arterial circulation,  hence his  afflic-
tions cause formation of adipose tissue, fatty degeneration of muscles,  tu-
mors,  and morbid growths, enlargement of organs, waste of sugar and albumen
as  in  diabetes  and kindred  diseases.   Blood-poisoning,  hyperaemia  and
apoplexy are due to afflictions of Jupiter.

   The  following  effects  may be noted when Jupiter is  afflicted  in  the
twelve signs.

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN ARIES gives a tendency to dizziness,  cerebral  conges-
tion, sleepiness, thrombosis, fainting, ulcerated gums of upper jaw, and, by
reflex action in Libra,  diabetes and depression due to lack of adrenal  se-
cretion.

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN TAURUS gives a tendency to gourmandize,  hence plethora
and apoplexy,  ringworm and carbuncles follow;  also ulcerated gums of  man-
dible; by reflex action in Scorpio, catarrh of the nose and nosebleed.


[PAGE 558]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN GEMINI gives a tendency to pleurisy,  blood affections,
congestion  of the lungs,  pulmonary apoplexy;  by reflex action  in  Sagit-
tarius, broken bones, gout and rheumatism in hips and thighs.

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN CANCER gives a tendency to gourmandize,  causing  dila-
tion of the stomach, dyspepsia, liver complaints, jaundice,  and dropsy;  by
reflex action in Capricorn, which rules the skin,  pimples and similar erup-
tions.

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN LEO gives a tendency to apoplexy and fatty degeneration
of  the heart,  the valve action is weakened,  the circulation  sluggish  at
times  and at other times there are palpitation and feverish conditions;  by
reflex action in Aquarius, swollen ankles.

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN VIRGO gives a tendency to enlarged liver,  often ulcer-
ated, jaundice.

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN LIBRA gives a tendency to melancholy due to  diminished
adrenal secretion,  renal abscess,  diabetes, skin eruptions due to sluggish
action of kidneys; by reflex action in Aries, congestion of brain,  coma and
vertigo.

JUPITER  AFFLICTED IN SCORPIO gives a tendency to enlarged  prostate  gland,
uterine tumors,  urethral abscess,  dropsy, hydraemia,  excess of urates and
strangury; by reflex action in Taurus, apoplexy and nosebleed.


[PAGE 559]                                     PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF JUPITER

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN SAGITTARIUS gives a tendency to rheumatism and gout; by
reflex action in Gemini, pulmonary apoplexy and corrupt blood.

JUPITER  AFFLICTED IN CAPRICORN gives a tendency to various  skin  diseases,
and,  by reflex action in Cancer, digestive ailments, dropsy, jaundice,  and
fatty degeneration of the liver.

JUPITER AFFLICTED IN AQUARIUS gives a tendency to milk-leg,  swollen ankles,
and, by reflex action in Leo, apoplexy and palpitation.

JUPITER  AFFLICTED IN PISCES gives a tendency to swollen,  perspiring  feet,
and, by reflex action in Virgo, enlarged liver, abdominal tumors,  jaundice,
and diseased intestines.

                         PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF MARS

   The ancient Egyptian sages called Cancer the sphere of the soul, and when
the  mystic  Sun of life goes through this moist,  fruitful lunar  sign  the
seed-atom of the ego's physical body is planted.   While the embryonic  body
grows unconsciously as a plant grows,  the mystic Sun of life passes through
Leo,  Virgo,  and Libra.  In the fourth month of gestation it passes through
the second of the water signs,  Scorpio.  Then the spirit dies to its  heav-
enly home and is immured in its earthly prison house by Mars,  who chains it
with the silver cord and thus brings about the quickening.  Then  the Sun of


[PAGE 560]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

life proceeds through Sagittarius,  Capricorn, Aquarius,  and when after the
nine months have been completed it has passed through the last of the watery
signs,  Pisces,  the  flood-gates  of the womb are opened  and  the  ego  is
launched upon the sea of life under the auspices of the martial sign  Aries,
where the giver of life, the Sun, is exalted.

   During  the gestatory period Mars has given to the body iron,  especially
in the form of haemoglobin, and with the first breath oxidation of this sub-
stance commences to produce the heat so necessary to life and consciousness.
This  operation is continued all through life,  and thus to the Martian  ray
falls the important task of supplementing the Sun in the maintenance of  the
vital  spark  until  the mystic Sun of life has  completed  its  circle  and
reached  the sign where the quickening took place.   Then Scorpio gives  the
body  its death-sting,  Mars and his friend Saturn cut the silver cord,  and
the  free  soul soars as an eagle into the empyrean  seeking  the  celestial
spheres which are its true home.   Therefore Scorpio is symbolized both by a
scorpion and an eagle.

   On account of his mission as AIDE to the Sun in the maintenance of  life,
Mars every aims to cleanse the body of filth and waste accumulation so  that
the fires of life may burn brightly, hence, when the gourmandizing habits of
Jupiter and Venus have clogged the system,  or the obstructive tendencies of
Saturn have poisoned the body by stoppage of elimination,  Mars  lights  the


[PAGE 561]                                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF MARS

fire of fever and inflammation to burn out the refuse and give the system  a
new lease on life and energy.   Thus many of the pathogenic effects of  Mars
aim at a constructive end.

   But Mars not only aids the vital process of the life-giving Sun,  who  is
exaltation  ruler  of Aries;  he is himself exaltation ruler  of  Capricorn,
where Saturn, the planet of death, holds sway, and between those two thieves
the Sun,  the Lord of Life, is crucified, suffers and dies,  while they part
his physical garment.  The role of Saturn in this process has been described
in the appropriate chapter, and of Mars it may be said that by his reckless-
ness he predisposes to accidents by burning, scalding,  wounds,  or gunshot.
He rules the genitals through Scorpio, and depletes the vitality and  causes
genital disorders by passional excesses, haemorrhage,  rupture of blood ves-
sels.   Excessive menses and haemorrhoids show his activities in the  blood;
hernia  and contagious diseases are also manifestations of the martian  ray.
As mars is a malefic,  his presence in any sign or house constitutes an  af-
fliction in itself,  regardless of his aspects, but naturally his pathogenic
effects  are worse when he is aspected by square or opposition than when  he
is fortified by sextile or trine.

   His  effects in the twelve signs may be more specifically stated as  fol-
lows:

MARS IN ARIES gives a tendency to sunstroke,  cerebral haemorrhages or  con-
gestion, inflammation of the brain, brain fever and delirium, shooting pains


[PAGE 562]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

in the head,  insomnia,  and wounds in the head;  by reflex action in Libra,
inflammation of the kidneys, renal haemorrhage and renal calculi.

MARS IN TAURUS gives a tendency to mumps, enlarged or inflamed tonsils, suf-
focation, adenoids, diphtheria, polypus and nosebleed, goitre,  inflammation
of the larynx; by reflex action in Scorpio, excessive menstrual flow, scald-
ing urine, venereal ulcers, enlargement of the prostate gland and strangury.

MARS  IN  GEMINI gives a tendency to haemorrhage of  the  lungs,  pneumonia,
bronchitis,  cough,  wounds or fractures of hands, arms, and collarbone;  by
reflex action in Sagittarius, fractured femur, and sciatica.

MARS IN CANCER gives a tendency to milk-fever, inflammation,  ulceration and
haemorrhage of the stomach, dyspepsia.

MARS IN LEO gives a tendency to muscular rheumatism in the back, overheating
of the blood,  enlargement of the heart and palpitation,  pain in the heart,
suffocation and fainting (ANGINA PECTORIS), inflammation of the pericardium.

MARS IN VIRGO gives a tendency to typhoid, inflammation of the bowels, peri-
tonitis, worms, diarrhoea, cholera, and ventral hernia, appendicitis.


[PAGE 563]                                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF MARS

MARS  IN  LIBRA gives a tendency to inflammation of the kidneys,  excess  of
urine, haemorrhage of the kidneys, and renal stones; by reflex action in Ar-
ies, brain-fever, sunstroke, pains in the head.

MARS  IN  SCORPIO  gives a tendency to  excessive  menses,  scalding  urine,
gravel,  sand,  and renal stones, inflammation and ulceration of the ovaries
and uterus,  also of the vagina and urethra, varicocele,  enlargement of the
prostate gland,  stricture and strangury,  venereal ulcers and haemorrhoids;
by reflex action in Taurus, inflamed tonsils or larynx and nosebleed.

MARS  IN SAGITTARIUS gives a tendency to fracture or dislocation of the  fe-
mur, sciatica, and ulcers of the thighs; by reflex action in Gemini, pneumo-
nia, bronchitis and coughs.

MARS  IN  CAPRICORN gives a tendency to  carbuncles,  erysipelas,  smallpox,
chicken pox,  measles, pimples, itch and other eruptive or inflammatory skin
diseases; by reflex action in Cancer, dyspepsia and ulcerated stomach.

MARS IN AQUARIUS gives a tendency to varicose veins, fracture of the leg and
blood-poisoning;  by reflex action in Leo, heart failure,  overheated blood,
fainting and palpitation.


[PAGE 564]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

MARS IN PISCES gives a tendency to deformities of the feet,  or accidents to
them, corns, bunions and perspiring feet; by reflex action in Virgo, ventral
hernia, inflammation of the bowels and diarrhea.

                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF URANUS

   Uranus  rules the ether which is the medium by which the light  rays  are
transmitted,  hence he has considerable influence over the eyes and  is  re-
sponsible,  when  afflicting the Sun or Moon,  for various diseases  of  the
eyes,  or even blindness.   This is especially the case when the Sun or Moon
is  placed  in the Pleiades (Taurus 29), or the Ascelli (Leo 6)  or  Antares
(Sagittarius 8).

   Modern astrologers have not yet had time to tabulate the full effects  of
Uranus  in all the signs,  and as for the pathogenic effects still  less  is
known,  but he is said to be exalted in Scorpio and our own experience seems
to indicate that Uranus has a very marked evil influence on the sex which is
ruled by this sign, producing most deep-seated venereal diseases.  By reflex
action  or affliction to planets in Taurus (ruled by Venus) where the  organ
of coordinated action is located, he produces erratic movements,  as seen in
St.  Vitus dance, contortions, spasms, tetanus, cramps,  hiccough and hyste-
ria.

   As ruler of the ether and gases he is responsible for injury and shock by
electricity which travels through the ether.  Nitrogen, a gas,  is  the base


[PAGE 565]                                      PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF URANUS

of a number of compounds whose characteristic Uranian instability makes them
highly explosive,  and Uranus is thus responsible for such deaths and  inju-
ries as occur on that account, especially if placed in the Eighth House.

URANUS IN TAURUS gives a tendency to diminished pituitary secretion and con-
sequent abnormal growth.

URANUS  IN GEMINI gives a tendency to spasmodic asthma,  colds,  and a  dry,
hard cough.

URANUS IN CANCER gives a tendency to hiccough,  produced by the erratic  ac-
tion of the diaphragm,  also to a hard,  dry stomach cough and cramp of  the
stomach, gas and flatulence.

URANUS IN LEO gives a tendency to palpitation, spasmodic heart action,  spi-
nal  meningitis  and  infantile paralysis; by reflex  action  from  Aquarius
similar effects are now observable.

URANUS IN  VIRGO gives a tendency to flatulence, and abdominal cramps.

URANUS  IN LIBRA gives a tendency to intermittent action of the kidneys  and
venereal  eruptions  of  the skin;  by reflex action in  Aries,  sudden  and
violent headaches, shooting pains in the head, and hallucinations.


[PAGE 566]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

URANUS IN SCORPIO gives a tendency to miscarriages, abortions,  and venereal
diseases,  and in the Fifth House he causes painful and  difficult  parturi-
tion, generally involving the use of instruments and often the infant is se-
verely or fatally injured or stillborn.

URANUS  IN CAPRICORN usually works by reflex action in Cancer,  but  as  the
children  with this position are still young (this is written in  1918)  the
full effects are as yet unknown.

                        PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF NEPTUNE

   Neptune, the octave of Mercury, works principally upon the nervous system
(ruled  by Mercury) and at times produces frenzy where the person is  beside
himself on account of religious or other excitement.  At other times he pro-
duces lethargy,  coma, catalepsy, trance or mediumship, where the bodily en-
ergies  are in abeyance while the psychic powers are in a state of  hyperac-
tivity.   He rules the spinal canal, which is filled with ether during life.
(It  is true that surgeons tap it and draw out a fluid,  but they  may  also
draw water from a steam boiler because the steam condenses to water.)   This
luminous gas is called THE SPINAL SPIRIT FIRE by occultists,  and by vibrat-
ing the pineal gland,  also ruled by Neptune,  spiritual sight is  produced,
but  it depends upon the rate and pitch of these vibrations what the  person
sees.  By prayer, concentration and meditation, a state of  ecstasy  may  be


[PAGE 567]                                     PATHOGENIC EFFECTS OF NEPTUNE

produced  where  he  sees  the  celestial hosts,  or  if  a  lower  rate  of
super-normal vibration is produced by drink or drugs he sees demoniac shapes
as related by sufferers of delirium, which is due to Neptune,  especially in
the watery sign Pisces.  The pathogenic influence of Neptune is most evil in
the  Sixth House (or the sixth sign,  Virgo) indicating disease,  or in  the
Twelfth  House (or the twelfth sign,  Pisces) which governs sorrow,  trouble
and self-undoing.   If these two houses are occupied by Taurus and  Scorpio,
the signs ruling the throat and genitals, there is an abnormal and perverted
passional desire which gives a tendency to self-abuse,  and perversion of  a
still  worse  nature.   The mind,  ruled by Mercury,  the  lower  octave  of
Neptune,  is morbid in its brooding upon unsavory subjects, and parents with
children having Neptune in the Sixth or Twelfth Houses will do well to watch
them carefully, especially if Neptune is in opposition to Uranus;  that cov-
ers a number of those who are now,  in 1918,  reaching puberty,  for Neptune
has  been going through the psychic sign Cancer while Uranus was in the  op-
posite sign Capricorn.

   We have found that Neptune square Saturn and Jupiter brought mental  dis-
turbances;  Neptune conjunction Mars in Aries, square Uranus and the Moon in
Cancer caused temporary instability of a periodic nature;  Neptune  conjunc-
tion Moon square Uranus caused spirit control.  We have also seen many other
indications,  but  the  full  effects of Neptune have not yet been systemat-


[PAGE 568]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

ically observed.   We are working to that end,  however,  and hope in future
years to be able to present a fairly full tabulation.

                             THE DUCTLESS GLANDS

                            THEIR ROLE AND RULERS

   It  is well known to the esoteric astrologer that the human body  has  an
immense period of evolution behind it and that this splendid organism is the
result of a slow process of gradual upbuilding which is still continuing and
will make each generation better than the previous until in some far distant
future  it shall have reached a stage of completion of which we cannot  even
dream.  It is also understood by the deeper students that in addition to the
physical body man has finer vehicles which are not yet seen by the great ma-
jority  of human beings,  though all have within them latent a  sixth  sense
whereby they will in time cognize these finer sheaths of the soul.   The oc-
cultist speaks of these finer vehicles as the VITAL BODY, made of ether, and
the DESIRE BODY, made of desire stuff, the material whence we draw our feel-
ings  and  emotions,  and with the addition of the SHEATH OF  MIND  and  the
physical body these complete what may be termed the personality which is the
evanescent  part distinct from the immortal spirit that uses these  vehicles
for its expression.   These finer vehicles interpenetrate the dense physical
body as air permeates water and  have particular dominion over certain parts


[PAGE 569]                                               THE DUCTLESS GLANDS

thereof,  because  the physical body itself is a  crystallization  of  these
finer vehicles in the same manner and upon the same principle that the  soft
fluids  of  a snail's body gradually crystallize into the  hard  and  flinty
shell which it carries upon its back.   For the purpose of this dissertation
we  may  say broadly that the softer parts of our bodies which  we  commonly
call flesh may be divided into two kinds,   glands and muscles.   The  vital
body  was started in the Sun Period.   Crystallization from that time on  in
that vehicle has developed what we now call glands and to this day they  and
the  blood  are  the special manifestations of the  vital  body  within  the
physical vehicle,  and therefore the glands as a whole may be said to be un-
der the rule of the life-giving Sun and the great benefic, Jupiter.   For it
is  the  function  of the vital body to build and restore the  tone  of  the
muscles  when tense and tired by the work imposed upon them by the  restless
desire body which was started in the Moon Period.  The muscles are therefore
ruled by the wandering Moon,  which is the present vantage point of the  an-
gels,  the humanity of the Moon Period,  and by the impulsive and  turbulent
Mars, where the so-called "Fallen Angels," the Lucifer spirits, dwell;  that
is  to say as a whole,  for the student must carefully note that  individual
glands  and  particular groups of muscles are under the rulership  of  other
planets as well.   It is as when we say that all who live within the  United
States of America are citizens of  that country, but some are subject to the


[PAGE 570]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

laws of California, others to those of Maine.

   We know the Hermetic axiom, "AS ABOVE, SO BELOW," which is the master key
to all mysteries,  and as there are upon the earth,  the macrocosm,  a great
many  undiscovered places,  so also in the microcosm of the body do we  find
unknown countries that are a closed book to the scientific explorers.  Chief
among them has been a small group of the so-called "ductless glands,"  seven
in number, namely:

         The PITUITARY BODY, ruled by Uranus.
         The PINEAL GLAND, ruled by Neptune.
         The THYROID GLAND, ruled by Mercury.
         The THYMUS GLAND, ruled by Venus.
         The SPLEEN, ruled by the Sun.
         The two ADRENALS. ruled by Jupiter.

   They have a great and particular interest for occultists, and they may be
termed in a certain sense "the seven roses" upon the Cross of the body,  for
they are intimately connected with the occult development of humanity.  Four
of them,  the Thymus Gland,  the Spleen and the two Adrenals,  are connected
with  the  personality.   The Pituitary Body and the Pineal Gland  are  par-
ticularly  correlated with the spiritual side of our nature and the  Thyroid
Gland forms the link between.  The astrological rule over these seven glands
is as follows:

   The  Spleen is the entrance gate of the solar forces specialized by  each
human being and circulated through  the  body  as  the  vital fluid, without


[PAGE 571]                                               THE DUCTLESS GLANDS

which no being can live.  This organ is therefore governed by the Sun.   The
two Adrenals are under the rulership of Jupiter, the great benefic,  and ex-
ert a calming, quieting and soothing effect when the emotional activities of
the Moon and Mars or Saturn have destroyed the poise.   When the obstructive
hand  of Saturn has awakened the melancholy emotions and laid its  restraint
upon  the heart,  the Adrenals'  secretions are carried by the blood to  the
heart and act as a powerful stimulant in its effort to keep up the  circula-
tion,  while the Jovial optimism struggles against the Saturnine worries  or
against the impulse of Mars, which stirs the desire body into turbulent emo-
tions of anger,  rendering the muscles tense and trembling,  dissipating the
energy of the system;  then the secretion of the Adrenals comes to the  res-
cue,  releasing  the glycogen of the liver in a more abundant  measure  than
usual  to  cope with the emergency until the equipoise has  been  again  at-
tained,  and similarly during whatever other stress or strain.   It was  the
knowledge of this occult fact that prompted the ancient astrologers to place
the kidneys under the rulership of Libra, the Balance, and in order to avoid
confusion of ideas we may say the kidneys themselves play an important  part
in the nutrition of the body,  being under the rulership of Venus,  the Lady
of  Libra,  but Jupiter governs the Adrenals,  with which we  are  now  par-
ticularly engaged.


[PAGE 572]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

   Both Venus and her higher octave, Uranus,  govern the functions of nutri-
tion and growth,  but in different ways and for different purposes.   There-
fore Venus rules the Thymus Gland, which is the link between the parents and
the child until the latter has reached puberty.   This gland is located  im-
mediately  behind the sternum or breast bone;  it is largest  in  ante-natal
life and through childhood while growth is excessive and rapid.  During that
time the vital body of the child does its most effective work, for the child
is  not  then subject to the passions and emotions generated by  the  desire
body after that comes to birth at or about the fourteenth year.   But during
the years of growth the child cannot manufacture the red blood corpuscles as
does the adult, for the unborn, unorganized desire body does not then act as
an avenue for the martian forces which assimilate the iron from the food and
transmute it into haemoglobin.   To compensate for this lack there is stored
in the Thymus Gland a spiritual essence drawn from the parents, who are sym-
bolized by Venus,  the ruler,  and with this essence provided by the love of
the parents the child is able to accomplish the alchemistry of blood  tempo-
rarily  until its desire body becomes dynamically active.   Then the  Thymus
Gland  atrophies and the child draws from its own desire body the  necessary
martian force.  From that time, under normal conditions, Uranus,  the octave
of Venus,  and ruler of the Pituitary Body,  takes charge of the function of
growth and assimilation in the following manner:


[PAGE 573]                                               THE DUCTLESS GLANDS

   It is well known that all things,  our food included,  radiate from them-
selves continuously small particles which given an index of the thing whence
they emanate, its quality included.  Thus when we lift the food to our mouth
a  number of these invisible particles enter the nose and by  excitation  of
the  olfactory  tract convey to us a knowledge of whether the  food  we  are
about to take is suitable for this purpose or not,  the sense of smell warn-
ing us to discard such foods as have a noxious odor, etc.  But besides those
particles  which attract or repel us from food by their action upon the  ol-
factory tract through the sense of smell,  there are others which  penetrate
the  sphenoid bone,  impinge upon the Pituitary Body and start  the  Uranian
alchemistry  by  which a secretion is formed and injected  into  the  blood.
This  furthers assimilation through the chemical ether,  thus affecting  the
normal  growth  and  well-being of the body through  life.   Sometimes  this
Uranian  influence of the Pituitary Body is eccentric and therefore  respon-
sible for strange and abnormal growths which produce the unfortunate  freaks
of nature we occasionally meet.

   But  besides being responsible for the spiritual impulses which  generate
the  before-mentioned  physical manifestations of  growth,  Uranus,  working
through the Pituitary Body,  is also responsible for the spiritual phases of
growth which aid awakened man in his efforts to penetrate the veil into  the
Invisible Worlds.  In this work it is, however, associated with Neptune, the
ruler of the Pineal Gland, and it will therefore be necessary,  in  order to


[PAGE 574]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

properly elucidate, that we study the functions of the Thyroid Gland,  ruled
by  Mercury,  and of the Pineal Gland, which is under the domination of  his
higher octave, Neptune, simultaneously.

   That the Thyroid Gland is under the rule of Mercury,  the planet of  rea-
son,  is  readily realized when we understand the effect  which  the  degen-
eration of this gland has upon the mind, as shown in the diseases of Cretin-
ism  and  Myxedema.   The secretions of this gland are as necessary  to  the
proper functioning of the mind as ether is to the transmission of  electric-
ity,  that is to say,  upon the physical plane of existence where the  brain
transmutes thought into action.   Contact with and expression in the  invis-
ible  worlds depends upon the functional ability of the Pineal Gland,  which
is altogether spiritual in function, and is therefore ruled by the octave of
Mercury,  Neptune, the planet of spirituality.  But Neptune operates in con-
junction with the Pituitary Body ruled by Uranus,  the planet of wisdom,  as
has already been stated.

   Scientists have wasted much time in speculation upon the nature and func-
tion  of these two little bodies,  the Pituitary Body and the Pineal  Gland,
but without avail,  and principally because,  as Mephistopheles says so sar-
castically to the young man who wants to study science under Faust:


[PAGE 575]                                               THE DUCTLESS GLANDS

   "Who e'er would know and treat of aught alive
   Seeks first the living spirit thence to drive;
   Then are the lifeless fragments in his hand;
   He lacks, alas!  THE VITAL SPIRIT BAND."

   No  one can really and truly observe the physiological functions  of  any
organ  under such conditions as exist in the laboratory,  on  the  operating
table,  or in the dissection or vivisection chamber.   To arrive at  an  ad-
equate understanding one must necessarily see these organs exercising  their
physiological  functions IN THE LIVING BODY,  and that can only be  done  by
means of the spiritual sight.  There are a number of organs which are either
atrophying or developing;  the former show the path we have already traveled
during our past evolution,  the latter are finger-posts,  indicating our fu-
ture development.  But there is still another class of organs which are nei-
ther degenerating nor evolving; they are simply dormant at the present time.
Physiologists believe that the Pituitary Body and the Pineal Gland are atro-
phying  because they find these organs more developed in some of the  lowest
classes of life,  such as worms,  but as a matter of fact they are wrong  in
their ideas;  these organs are only dormant.   Some have also suspected that
the Pineal Gland is in some way connected with the mind, because it contains
certain  crystals after death,  and the quantity was much less in those  who
were mentally defective than in people of normal mentality.  This conclusion
is right, but the Seer knows that the spinal  canal  of  the  living  is not


[PAGE 576]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

fluid with FLUID;  that the blood is not LIQUID,  and that these organs have
no CRYSTALS in them when the body is alive;  these assertions are made  with
full knowledge of the fact that the blood and the spinal essence are  liquid
when drawn out of the physical body, living or dead, and the contents of the
Pituitary  Body  and the Pineal Gland APPEAR crystalline when the  brain  is
dissected; but the reason is similar to that which causes steam drawn from a
steam  boiler to condense immediately upon contact with the atmosphere,  and
molten metal drawn from a smelter's furnace to crystallize immediately  upon
withdrawal therefrom.

   All these substances are purely spiritual essences when inside the  body;
they are then ethereal and the substance in the Pineal Gland,  when seen  by
the spiritual sight,  appears as LIGHT.   Furthermore,  when one Seer  looks
upon  the Pineal Gland of another who is then also exercising his  spiritual
faculties, this light is of a most intense brilliancy and of an irridescence
similar to but transcending in beauty the most wonderful play of the  North-
ern Lights,  the AURORA BOREALIS,  ever witnessed by the writer,  and he has
seen them many times.   It may also be said that the function of this  organ
seems to have changed in the course of human evolution.   During the earlier
epochs  of  our present stay upon the earth,  when man's body was  a  large,
baggy thing into which the spirit had not yet entered, but was there only as
an overshadowing presence, there was an opening in the  top  and  the Pineal


[PAGE 577]                                               THE DUCTLESS GLANDS

Gland was within it; it was then an organ of orientation,  giving a sense of
direction.  As the human body condensed, it became less and less able to en-
dure the intense heat which prevailed during that time and the Pineal  Gland
gave warning when the body was brought too near one of the many craters  and
active  volcanoes  which were then erupting the thin earth crust,  thus  en-
abling the spirit to guide it away from these dangerous places.   It was  an
organ  of direction which operated by feeling,  but feeling has  since  been
distributed  over the skin of the whole body,  and this is an indication  to
the  occultist  that some day the senses of hearing and sight will  also  be
similarly distributed so that we shall both see and hear with our whole body
and thus become still more sensitive in those respects than we are now.

   Since  then  the Pineal Gland and the Pituitary Body have  become  tempo-
rarily dormant to make man oblivious to the invisible world while he  learns
the  lessons  afforded by the material world;  but the  Pituitary  Body  has
manifested  the Uranian influence sporadically in abnormal physical  growth,
producing freaks and monstrosities of various kinds, while Neptune,  working
also  abnormally through the Pineal Gland, has been responsible for the  ab-
normal spiritual growth of medicine men, witches and mediums of spirit  con-
trols.   When  they  are awakened to normal activities  these  two  ductless
glands will open the door to the inner worlds in a sane and safe manner, but
in the meantime the Thyroid Gland, ruled by Mercury,  the  planet of reason,


[PAGE 578]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

holds the secretion necessary to give the brain balance.

   In the future the ductless glands are destined to play a prominent  role;
their development will accelerate evolution greatly,  for their effects  are
mainly mental and spiritual.   We are now nearing the Aquarian Age;  the Sun
as  therefore  beginning to transmit the highly intellectual  vibrations  of
this  sign which accounts for the intuitions,  premonitions  and  telepathic
transmission  now so prevalent.   In the final analysis these phenomena  are
due  to the awakening of the Pituitary Body,  ruled by Uranus,  the lord  of
Aquarius, and every passing year will make them more manifest.


                             --- END OF FILE --- 

