[PAGE 579]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                                CHAPTER XXX.

                        THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

   IN  ORDER to further aid the student of the stellar science we present  a
number  of  horoscopes  of  people who have come to us  for  help  in  their
trouble.   We therefore know these cases to be authentic and trust that  our
delineation of their various ailments by means of astro-diagnosis may  prove
a true guide.

   We  have  made an attempt at classification of these horoscopes,  but  as
there  are generally symptoms of several diseases in each horoscope  it  has
been impossible to draw hard and fast lines in the grouping, and the student
will therefore have to rely mainly on the headlines for indications of  what
the figure shows.

   The first 22 horoscopes are found on pp. 624-634.

   The last 14 figures are attached to their respective readings.

                         SEX AS A FACTOR IN DISEASE

   It is our earnest conviction,  that the less we dwell upon sex,  the less
we  read about it and think about it,  the purer we shall be  mentally,  and
also less liable to danger of morbid habits,  for these are often formed  by
overstudy of the sex question,  and persons having a tendency in that direc-


[PAGE 580]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

tion  should  be discouraged in attempts to discuss the matter at  all.   In
planning this chapter we had at one time thought it possible to escape  men-
tion of the subject, but more mature thought based upon much study of health
and  disease from the mystical standpoint has convinced us that we  must  go
back  to the allegorical Garden of Eden for the starting-point of  pain  and
sorrow,  as  fully explained in our literature.   The effects  of  continued
transgression are with us today as a matter of actual fact,  abuse of sex is
in  the most literal sense the primal source of sorrow,  disease and  degen-
eracy under which the world is groaning,  and in a work of this nature it is
obligatory  to show the causes so that the remedy may be found and  applied.
Therefore  we shall attempt to show the prenatal influences revealed by  the
horoscope  as a warning to parents that marriage is a sacrament,  and not  a
license to sex abuse,  and that "the sins of the fathers are indeed  visited
upon the children."   At the same time, of course,  an innocent child is not
born with the tendency to a certain disease,  its former living has made  it
liable to a specific weakness, and for that reason it is drawn by the Law of
Association  to parents from whom it may obtain a body subject to that  par-
ticular  ailment.   Thus  parents are only  instruments  in  fulfilling  the
self-made destiny of the child.  If we thoroughly realize that fact, and can
be persuaded to live pure and wholesome lives,  so  that we may draw to our-


[PAGE 581]                              THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

selves  souls  of a kindred virtuous nature,  how much better  for  all  the
world.   To drive this point home, the writers undertake to paint the loath-
some picture of degeneracy,  that the picture of purity may be the more  at-
tractive by contrast.

   In this connection we present first figure No. 1, which is that of a boy,
in 1912 about 16 years of age.  The Fourth and Tenth Houses,  the planets in
them and their rulers show the parents.   the parent who most influences the
life is shown by the Tenth House configurations,  and the Fourth House indi-
cates the one lease concerned in the child's destiny.

   In  this figure Gemini is on the Midheaven,  and Mercury,  its ruler,  is
square  the  Moon from cardinal signs.  Neptune is conjunction Mars  in  the
Tenth  House  and square the Sun in the mercurial sign Virgo.   This  estab-
lishes well the morbid, neurotic nature of the father, and his instrumental-
ity  in  depriving the boy of the faculty of speech and of  coordination  of
muscular movements; the boy cannot walk, but staggers.

   The mother's part is described by Sagittarius on the Fourth House.  Jupi-
ter,  the ruler is in Leo in conjunction with the Dragon's Tail, (the Moon's
Western Node),  which has an influence similar to Saturn.  It is also square
to Saturn and Uranus, these being in conjunction in Scorpio.  This describes
her as being a lewd woman;  degenerate,  committed to the dreadful theory of
soul-mates,  affinities,  free  love  and  all  kindred  abuses.  These lewd


[PAGE 582]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

tendencies  she  imparted  to the boy.  The affliction to  Leo  affects  the
heart,  and as Saturn is the embodiment of obstruction,  restraint and  sup-
pression,  we may know that the heart action is very weak,  (had the afflic-
tion  come  from  Mars his dynamic energy would  have  caused  palpitation).
Scorpio has rule over the sex organ,  Uranus and Saturn there give  tendency
to self-abuse, and on the well known principle that mutilation of that organ
affects  the voice,  we have in this configuration an added reason  for  the
poor boy's inability to speak.  The affliction coming from fixed signs shows
the deep rooted constitutional nature of the evil, and what may come of con-
ception during a drunken debauch.

                        THE GUARDIAN OF THE THRESHOLD

   Horoscope  No.  2 shows one of the most remarkable psychic conditions  we
have ever come across.   Its portents in some respects are plain to any  as-
trologer,  but investigation by one of the writers into this  person's  past
life  adds sidelights and gives depth to the meaning of  configurations  not
otherwise obtainable;  also to the writer, who made the spiritual investiga-
tion  two years before the horoscope was cast,  it was a revelation to  note
how  the mystic facts he remembered so well,  were inscribed in this  little
wheel of life.   To enable the student to properly appreciate the remarkable
case  we  relate the story of how we came into connection with  the  person,
what we attempted to do, and what actually happened.


[PAGE 583]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

   In  the fall of 1910,  a friend told us the sad case of a young boy  con-
fined to his bed, lying upon his stomach and elbows,  persistently gazing at
a certain spot in a corner of the room,  as if fascinated,  his whole  frame
continually shaking with sobs and moans.   At request of the friend we  vis-
ited  the unfortunate boy,  and found that the object which drew  his  gaze,
with a power similar to that whereby the snake charms a bird into its fangs,
was an elemental of the most horrible type we have ever seen.   Standing  by
the  bedside  we  directed a stream of force towards the base  of  the  poor
victim's  brain,  and thus drew him towards us in an endeavor to  break  the
spell,  but the fiend held the consciousness charmed to such a  degree  that
there  was  evident danger of rupture of body and soul.   We  therefore  de-
sisted,  and,  with the fearlessness born of inexperience,  decided to fight
the elemental upon his own plane of being.  But the Elder Brother who is our
Mentor sought us that evening; he advised caution,  and investigation of the
genesis of the monster before we took action.

   Research of the memory of nature developed the fact that in its last life
the spirit embodied in the youth had been an initiate of the Order of Jesus,
a Jesuit,  and a zealot of the most ardent type,  cruel and unfeeling in the
highest degree,  yet perfectly impersonal, with no other aim in life save to
further the interests of his Holy Order.  The health, wealth,  reputation or
life of others he sacrificed without qualm of conscience,  so that the order


[PAGE 584]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

was benefited;  he would have offered himself up as freely,  for he was sin-
cere to the core.   Love was as foreign to his nature as hate,  but sex  was
rampant;  it tore his strong soul to shreds,  yet it never mastered him;  he
was  too proud to show his passion even to one who could have gratified  it,
and so he developed the secret habit.   It must not be supposed that he  be-
came an abject slave in that respect;  he,  the immortal spirit,  fought his
lower nature by prayer,  castigations, fastings and every other  conceivable
means;  sometimes he thought he had conquered, but when he least expected it
the beast in him rallied, and the war waged as fiercely as ever.  Many times
he was tempted to mutilate himself, but he scorned such a course as unworthy
a man,  especially when that man had taken the vows of priesthood.   At last
he succumbed to the strain;  vigorous manhood was succeeded by a middle  age
of delicate health,  constant pain increased his mental anguish and sympathy
was born of suffering;  he was no longer indifferent to the tortures of vic-
tims of the Holy Office.   Being by nature a zealot and enthusiast in  what-
ever  direction  his energies were exerted, the pendulum soon swung  to  the
other extreme, Paul-like, he fought to protect whom he had previously perse-
cuted,  he incurred the enmity of the Holy Office,  and finally,  broken  in
body,  but dauntless of spirit he fell a victim to the torture to  which  he
had subjected so many.

   By the sincerity of his nature, and his later life he earned the right of
admission to a Mystery School and prepared for the privilege  of  working as


[PAGE 585]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

an  Invisible Helper in future lives.   The Law of Association drew  him  to
birth  in an American family who were former friends,  and from them he  re-
ceived a nervous organization tuned to the high pitch required for his expe-
rience.

   Saturn opposes the life-giving Sun, suppresses the nervous energy of Mer-
cury,  and obstructs the Venus (venous) circulation,  by hindering secretion
of  urine and elimination of poisonous matter through the kidneys which  are
ruled by Libra,  the sign of Saturn's exaltation where he is placed in  this
natal figure.  As the planets which he opposes are placed in Aries, ruler of
the head, his disordering influence manifests through the brain and mind, as
well  as  the genito-urinary system.   The morbid condition of  these  parts
caused  by Saturn's repressive influence on the kidneys is further  accentu-
ated  by Uranus conjunction the Moon in the Sixth House which indicates  the
health,  under the sign ruling the generative organs, Scorpio.  As the horo-
scope  shows  tendencies  resulting from our actions in past  lives,  it  is
evident  that the self-abuse of this person must bring him to birth under  a
stellar  ray affecting the health in that particular manner,  for  when  the
soul  has been overcome by any particular besetting sin in any  life,  death
does not pay all any more than removal to another city pays our debts in our
present abode.   When we return,  temptation will again confront us until we
conquer  our  weakness.  It is the task of  this  poor  soul  to extract the


[PAGE 586]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

essence of virtue and chastity from the burning embers of passion and secret
vice.  May God help him and strengthen his arm in the terrible combat.  Only
Astrology,  the  Master Key of Compassion, can adequately reveal to  us  the
struggle  and anguish of the soul,  and save us from the crime of  despising
one in conditions of depravity.

   The  before-mentioned aspects were from Cardinal and Fixed  signs,  which
indicate that which is almost unalterable destiny.   But Neptune on the  As-
cendant, in a Common sign, Gemini, points to a condition in the making.   He
is trine to Saturn,  the afflicter of the mind, and supported by the dynamic
energy of Mars.

   Neptune indicates the invisible spiritual hierarchies which work with and
upon us,  and when placed in the Twelfth House it is evident that sorrow and
distress may be expected from them.  This position renders the person liable
to  be  preyed  upon by spirit controls, but the trine  to  Saturn  and  the
sextile  to the Sun,  Venus and Mercury protect him against  influence  from
outside  sources.   Thus he became a prey to the demoniac embodiment of  his
former actions,  the terrible creature known to mystics as "Guardian of  the
Threshold,"  which the neophyte must pass ere he can enter consciously  into
the Invisible World.   This dreadful shape had drawn its being from acts  of
cruelty committed by the man in his bygone life;  it has fed upon the curses
of his tortured victims,  and gorged itself upon the odor of their blood and
perspiration, as is the wont of elementals; it was a monster in  every sense


[PAGE 587]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

of  the word.   earth of its progenitor rendered it latent,  but in the  new
birth  figure  time was marked for retribution upon the  clock  of  destiny.
When the Moon by progression reached Mars' natal place in the Twelfth House,
his dynamic energy galvinized the monster into new life, and the troubles of
the poor lad had commenced.   The hate, anger and malice stored in the  mon-
ster  radiated  back upon him pang for pang and his negative  Gemini  nature
crumpled  under the onslaughts of the demon.  When we saw the thing  it  ap-
peared as a shapeless jellylike mass with many large greenish eyes  imbedded
at different parts of its body.   Every few seconds a sharp pointed,  sword-
like  projection  shot out from the most unexpected places in its  body  and
pierced the poor lad who lay cringing upon his bed.  Then, although the mon-
ster  had no mouth,  wherewith to laugh,  it seemed convulsed with  fiendish
glee at the fear and pain it had given.   At other times,  one or another of
the eyes seemed to dart from the monster,  projected upon what resembled  an
elephant's trunk and it would halt within an inch of the victim's eyes, gaz-
ing into them with a compelling power of awesome intensity.

   There  being so many good aspects to help him,  it is not likely that  he
will succumb, and when the Sun reaches conjunction of Jupiter's place in the
natal figure and the Moon has passed the square to the Sun's natal place,  a
distinct turn for the better may be looked for.  In the  meanwhile  the poor


[PAGE 588]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

soul must struggle alone with its self-made demon.  Had not the secret habit
sapped vitality in the former life,  birth under a stronger sign would  have
given greater power of physical endurance and rendered victory more certain.

                             DISEASE OF THE EYES

   This malady is due to rays from certain nebulous parts of the Zodiac; the
Pleiades in Taurus 29,  the Ascelli in Leo 6,  and Antares in Sagittarius 8.
When the Sun or Moon is in orb of one of these places, and afflicted by Sat-
urn,  Mars or Uranus, or vice versa, when Saturn, Uranus or Mars is in these
nebulous parts afflicting the Sun or Moon, trouble is indicated, but if care
is  taken in the case of children having this tendency to disease it may  be
greatly  modified or entirely avoided.   The light in schoolrooms calls  for
attention on general principles, but where a child has incipient eye trouble
the  parent  ought to request proper placement of the child  in  a  modified
light; reading by lamplight or in the dusk should not be permitted, and win-
dow shades in the home ought to be of a soothing color.   With  civilization
and life in cities the eyes have become habituated to short focus and cannot
quickly adjust themselves to variation of range as can those of sailors  and
plainsmen.  When a child's horoscope indicates weak eyes, residence in a ru-
ral district, if possible, may be of immense value in preserving the vision,
for exercise of the eye muscles by frequent adjustment  of  focus from short


[PAGE 589]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

to long range,  and vice versa,  will materially aid to strengthen the eyes.
It  is  a fact,  that much eye strain is due to congestion  of  the  ciliary
muscle,  which adjusts the lens to range of objects, and of the muscle which
contracts  the  iris.   Each time the latter fails to act quickly  too  much
light enters the retina is hurt.  Life in the open while the child's muscles
are still limber will do wonders towards correcting such defects,  and  even
grown  persons may derive vast benefit from outdoor life provided  the  eyes
are properly shaded at first.  Careful osteopathic treatment of the eyes has
also  a most beneficial effect of stimulating circulation and limbering  the
muscles.

                   SUBTILE INDICATIONS OF SPIRITUAL SIGHT

   It is a well know scientific fact,  that sensation depends on ability  to
feel  and interpret vibration in air and ether,  according to the sense  in-
volved.   Ancient seers devised the Staff of Mercury as a symbol of its  ef-
fects, and among other spiritual secrets embodied in the undulating forms of
the twin serpents,  is also this,  that Mercury is the originator of all vi-
bratory movement.  Hence he is a prime factor in production of sensation and
mental  processes  arising in the consciousness as a result.   An  elevated,
well  aspected Mercury therefore makes our senses acute and the  mind  keen;
and afflicted Mercury either dulls the senses, or makes the person hypersen-
sitive;  in  either  case  an  abnormal state of the brain mind is  produced


[PAGE 590]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

which causes suffering according to house, sign and affliction;  even a good
aspect of a so-called evil planet,  though it brings out the virtue of  that
planet,  also  carries with it a touch of the darker side because  even  the
best of us have something in our inner natures which vibrates to that  phase
of the planet's nature.

   But,  besides this roundabout way of acquiring knowledge  through  vibra-
tions  in the air and ether inaugurated by Mercury and interpreted  by  slow
processes in the brain mind where spirit and matter meet,  THERE IS A DIRECT
PATH  TO KNOWLEDGE symbolized by the staff around which the serpents  twine.
This is the ray of Neptune,  the octave of Mercury,  which puts us in  touch
with the spiritual worlds.   But,  observe this,  the staff and the serpents
are not separate,  the staff goes THROUGH the winding forms of the serpents,
and  thus we learn that in our present condition spiritual knowledge is  de-
pendent  on the brain mind for concrete expression,  and through  the  brain
mind the latter is colored according to the aspects of Neptune.

   Experience  has proved that the afflicted stellar ray from certain  parts
of  the  Zodiac  already mentioned, interferes with  the  etheric  vibration
sensed  by the retina of the eye, and thus impairs the physical sight.   If,
in  the  same figure,  Neptune is focused through one of these  places,  the
so-called "blind spot,"  which is BLIND because unresponsive to the  etheric
mercurial vibrations is sensitized by the spiritual ray of Neptune, and thus


[PAGE 591]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

it may be that a person physically near sighted, or even blind, may view the
spiritual worlds hidden from people whose sight is focused by mercurial  vi-
brations.   The  aspect of Neptune determines the grade and  nature  of  the
spiritual  sight  evolved,  as illustrated in various  horoscopes  herewith.
These  were picked to demonstrate other points,  but it occurred to us  that
the phase just mentioned is worthy of notice.  It may be well,  however,  to
warn  students against absurd conclusions;  we do not say that everyone  af-
flicted  with eye trouble by Antares,  Ascelli or the Pleiades is gifted  in
return with spiritual sight.  The woman in horoscope No. 5 is much afflicted
physically,  but Neptune is out of orb, and she derives no vision  from  his
ray.   Spiritual vision may also be undeveloped in many who have the  aspect
well defined,  but in those cases it is in process of unfoldment,  and  will
yield EASILY to proper exercises.   Where this aspect is a square or opposi-
tion it is wise,  however, to refrain from any attempt to seek illumination,
for  in  those aspects lurk great danger from spirit  controls,  elementals,
etc., which is amply illustrated in horoscope No. 2, where the opposition of
Neptune  to Antares is responsible for the awful vision of the  Guardian  of
the Threshold.   There the physical sight is not impaired,  but in horoscope
No.  3,  defective eyesight is shown by affliction from the Ascelli and like
trouble comes from Antares in No. 4.  In one the trine from Neptune produces
voluntary vision of the super-physical realms, but in the other his focus is


[PAGE 592]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

square,  hence  the spiritual sight obtained is intermittent and  not  under
control.

   We  have spoken of Mercury as originator of all sense  vibrations,  audi-
tory,  olfactory,  visual, etc., and of Neptune as its octave;  to forestall
questions we may say that in the spiritual world separateness ceases, sensa-
tions merge, so that sound and sight, voice and vision are one.  The Neptune
ray carries both,  but undeveloped seers suffering from the involuntary fac-
ulty,  "see"  or "hear"  as it suits the entities which obtain admission  to
them through this ray.

   Horoscope NO.  3 shows the inimical influence of the nebulous spot in Leo
6,  the Ascelli,  on the sight.   This dangerous degree was rising at  birth
with the Moon in close conjunction,  and the Sun also in orb.   Saturn in 24
degrees of Libra is just within orb of a square to the Sun in Leo 0 degrees,
and as a result of these various afflictions the person is compelled to  use
bifocal glasses.  There is a compensating advantage, however; Neptune in el-
evation and trine to the Ascelli (with Sun, Moon and Ascendant in orb),  has
endowed him with spiritual sight over which he has perfect control,  as  the
student may readily see by examination of Mercury, the best fortified planet
in  the horoscope.   Saturn,  by sextile, from the sign of  his  exaltation,
gives steadiness,  persistence and concentration; Jupiter by trine from  the
house  he  rules  expands  the  mind,  makes  it  religiously  inclined  and


[PAGE 593]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

benevolent;  Venus by sextile, adds kindliness and love of beauty.   Thus it
is  evident that in this horoscope the relation of Mercury and  its  octave,
Neptune,  to physical and spiritual expression of mind, is well illustrated.
Neptune is most highly elevated and Mercury is most strongly aspected.  Nei-
ther is afflicted, therefore he is not liable to hallucinations,  but weighs
his experiences in the scale of logic.   Compare this horoscope with that of
the poor young man afflicted by the Guardian of the Threshold (No. 2), where
Neptune is in the Twelfth House in conjunction with Mars,  and where Mercury
is afflicted by the opposition of Saturn, all from Cardinal signs;  contrast
of the two figures will bring out some fine points.

   In horoscope No.  5 we see the Moon in the Sixth House,  about three  de-
grees from Antares,  and Saturn is in the Twelfth House within 4 degrees  of
an opposition to Antares, about 7 degrees from exact opposition to the Moon;
thus  his natal influence was minimized.  Had the opposition been  close  or
exact,  blindness from birth would have been inevitable,  but fortunately it
was a weak aspect and the vision was not seriously affected until the Sun by
progression  entered the Twelfth House,  passed the opposition to the  Moon,
then  opposition to Antares and arrived at conjunction with  Saturn.   These
points of contact in the horoscope marked crises in the disease of the eyes.
Saturn being the afflicter, the nerves and muscles crystallized until  sight


[PAGE 594]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

of one eye was lost and the other eye is almost blind.   In November,  1912,
the Moon had progressed to the square of the Sun's place at birth.  That was
the final crisis which vivified the before-mentioned aspects.  Neptune makes
not aspect to the points of the Zodiac mentioned,  hence the spiritual sight
is deeply dormant.

Horoscope NO. 4 is the most afflicted of all; the Dragon's Tail, the Sun and
Antares are in conjunction.   That alone is sufficiently severe;  the condi-
tion is further aggravated,  however,  by a close square of Neptune and Mars
to the Sun,  and the affliction to the eyes is increased by a conjunction of
Saturn with the Pleiades which occurs in the Twelfth House.  Thus this horo-
scope shows the person when born to have very weak eyes,  and as a matter of
fact she can scarcely read even when holding book or paper a few inches from
the eyes and using a magnifying glass; but the square of Neptune to  Antares
has opened her spiritual senses to a certain extent so that she hears spirit
voices and at times has visions.   These manifestations,  being uncontrolled
by her,  are very unsatisfactory of course,  but prove the effect of Neptune
aspecting these points in the Zodiac.

                       THE DRAGON'S "HEAD" AND "TAIL"

   As  it  has often been a sore puzzle to students what are  the  "Dragon's
Head"  and "Tail" (called the Moon's nodes in the ephemeris), and why one is
supposed  to  be  good  and to further all that comes under its benefic ray,


[PAGE 595]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

while  the  other is considered extremely evil, it may be well to  show  the
reasonableness of the philosophy.

   First,  let us say for the information of students not versed  in  astro-
nomical terms,  that "nodes" are points where a planet, traveling in its or-
bit,  crosses the Sun's path;  as for instance,  the earth does at the equi-
noxes.  This is explained from both the astronomical and mystic sides in our
SIMPLIFIED  SCIENTIFIC  ASTROLOGY,  and also the revolution  of  the  Moon's
Nodes.

   Speaking  from the convenient geocentric viewpoint,  the Sun crosses  its
eastern node each year at the vernal equinox, 50 seconds of space in advance
of the point where it crossed the previous year;  as the Sun travels 15  de-
grees  per  hour,  50 seconds of space are traversed in about 3  seconds  of
time.

   The Moon rises about 50 minutes later each night;  applying the same mea-
sure,  50  minutes of time correspond to about 3 minutes of space,  and  the
Moon's nodes recede just that much every day.

   Thus the Sun travels around the circle of the Zodiac in one year, but re-
quires  27 times as many thousands (27,000 years),  to complete the  preces-
sional circle of its nodes,  the equinoctial points.   the swift moving Moon
circles  the Zodiac in 27 days and its nodes make a full revolution in  1000
weeks or 19 years.  (These figures are only approximate.)

   In the case of the Sun the place where it crosses the earth's equator  in
the east is always regarded  as the first point of Aries, no matter where in


[PAGE 596]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

the constellations it falls because of precession.   This procedure is  per-
fectly  justified because the life-giving qualities ascribed to the  Sun  in
Aries are observable as soon as it has crossed the equator;  then the  seeds
sprout,  the mating season commences and the whole creation seems stirred by
the solar ray to bring forth.  Therefore astrologers say that the Sun is ex-
alter in Aries,  and Aries is understood to be the first 30 degrees from the
equinoctial point, the eastern node of the Sun, where he crosses the equator
at the vernal equinox.

   On  the same principle the western node of the Sun,  the point  where  he
leaves  the northern hemisphere for the winter months,  is called the  first
point  of Libra,  and Saturn,  the planet of obstruction and suppression  is
here exalted;  he is the reaper with his scythe,  he mows down the fruits of
the solar ray, he suppresses life and joy, the gladsome voices of our feath-
ered friends are hushed in his presence, and the earth goes down to its win-
try grave under his withering influence.

   As  the Moon gathers and reflects the solar light upon earth,  this  bor-
rowed  light  is similar to the direct ray in certain  respects;  no  matter
where its eastern node (called the Dragon's Head),  falls in the signs,  the
effect upon affairs wherewith it is connected by conjunction is like that of
the Sun in Aries, which makes nature sing with joy; it furthers and acceler-
ates personal matters in a most beneficial manner, it so to speak,  oils the
wheels of life in the particular  department  where  it  is conjoined with a


[PAGE 597]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

planet.   On the other hand,  the Moon's western node,  (called the Dragon's
Tail),  corresponds to Libra where Saturn is exalted and if  in  conjunction
with a planet it exerts an influence of suppression and obstruction  similar
in effect to the chill blasts of winter ushered in by the saturnine  exalta-
tion.

   Horoscope  No.  6 shows its part in breaking the femur (thigh bone) of  a
woman.   Its position in the Twelfth House indicates confinement; the square
of the Sun from the Midheaven is a further natal affliction.   In  December,
1908,  the full Moon was in exact conjunction,  and Jupiter,  ruler  of  the
Sixth  House  (which shows sickness),  was in exact square to  the  Dragon's
Tail, also in exact opposition to her Sun.  Thus indications of trouble were
many.   Sagittarius,  which has dominion over the hips and thighs,  occupies
the  Sixth House,  so the femur was broken when the lady slipped on  an  icy
pavement just outside her house.   No. 4 shows the Dragon's Tail in conjunc-
tion  with the Sun near the fixed star Antares which has an inimical  influ-
ence on the sight, and the poor woman who is thus afflicted is in great dan-
ger of blindness.

   The  Moon's nodes are tabulated in our SIMPLIFIED  SCIENTIFIC  EPHEMERIS,
the  position being given for every day; their places at birth are found  by
simple proportion,  and the diagram herewith will explain that these  points
are called the "Dragon's Head" and the "Dragon's Tail" because  the paths of


[PAGE 598]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS
 
                                  DIAGRAM:
               THE SERPENTINE PATH OF SUN, MOON, AND PLANETS



[PAGE 599]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

Sun and planets appear serpentine when drawn upon a plane surface.

                             DISEASE OF THE EARS

   The  Twelfth House indicates the confining influences in  life.   Mercury
there  in conjunction with the Sun limits the spirit,  and deafness  hampers
its search after knowledge.   The same happens if Saturn,  Mars,  Uranus  or
Neptune afflict,  also when the mercurial signs, Gemini or Virgo, are on the
twelfth cusp and Mercury is afflicted,  (no matter where in the figure it is
placed).  We append horoscopes of people who are suffering from this malady;
No.  7  is the horoscope of a woman who is gradually  losing  here  hearing.
Mercury,  Venus and the Sun are in close conjunction in Pisces,  the twelfth
sign,  which is in the Twelfth House.  Blood,  lymph and the invisible vital
fluid, called "nerve force" by science, are the builders of our bodies; each
planet,  except  Uranus and Neptune,  has dominion over one  of  their  con-
stituent parts.

MERCURY rules the nerves, particularly the cerebrospinal system, and the in-
visible rose colored vital fluid which flows in the visible nerve sheath.

THE  MOON also rules the nerves in a general way,  but has special  dominion
over the nerve sheaths of the body, the sympathetic system and the lymph.

JUPITER governs the arterial circulation.


[PAGE 600]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

VENUS rules the venous blood.

MARS rules the iron in the blood.

THE SUN rules the oxygen.

SATURN  has dominion over the mineral deposits carried by the  blood,  which
causes the arteries and other parts of the body to harden.

   When a planet is in very close conjunction to the Sun,  three degrees  or
less,  it is said to be combust; its ray is,  so to speak,  burned up in the
terrific heat of the Sun,  and thus the afflicted planet is unable to  prop-
erly exercise its function in the life of persons born under that configura-
tion.   It is also evident that as the weakest link of a chain is the  first
to give, so the disability would show itself in a part of the body otherwise
afflicted.

   Horoscope No.  7 has both Venus and Mercury combust in the Twelfth House;
we  may  therefore  conclude that there is a lack of nerve  force  or  vital
fluid,  and that the venous circulation of the ear is obstructed.  Thus con-
gestion is inevitable,  and the hearing becomes less and less acute.   Oste-
opathy  is excellently equipped to deal successfully with a case like  this;
were  the  configuration in a fixed sign we might not feel  optimistic,  but
flexibility is the salient characteristic of the common signs,  so we see no
reason why with patience and perseverance a cure may not be consummated.


[PAGE 601]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

   As  said,  Saturn rules the earthly mineral matter carried by our  blood;
from this the bony structure is formed,  also concretions in the softer tis-
sues.  Therefore the skeleton is also under the dominion of Saturn.

   In horoscope No. 8, the auditory disability comes through the fixed signs
Leo  and Scorpio;  this makes it more difficult to remedy,  particularly  as
Saturn  is  the afflicter and throws his malefic ray upon  Mercury  from  an
angle.   Science thought at one time that the tympanum was the only,  or  at
least the main factor in hearing,  but realizes now that as much or more de-
pends upon the bony structure.   It is the nature of Saturn to obstruct  and
as  Scorpio rules the organs of Saturn to obstruct and as Scorpio rules  the
organs of excretion,  we may easily see that this important function is  im-
paired,  and that waste products have difficulty in passing kidneys and  co-
lon.  The whole system becomes clogged in consequence, and as Mercury in the
Twelfth  House marks the ears as weak, it is only natural that the  auditory
nerve  becomes  clogged  and the bony parts of the ear grow  denser  in  the
course of time.

   Sour milk or buttermilk has a particularly wholesome influence in  clear-
ing up a clogged system.  Many people rebel against the use of milk in quan-
tity  because of an idea that it aggravates constipation:   that is true  in
the beginning,  but after a short time the system will accommodate itself to
the diet,  which will be then found superlatively cleansing,  wholesome  and
nutritious.   Greens and fruits will also aid a person afflicted as in horo-
scope No. 8 to eliminate the waste and effect a cure in time.


[PAGE 602]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                         DISEASE OF THE VOCAL ORGANS

   Among  the  subjects germane to thorough knowledge of Astrology  are  the
similar  effects of intrinsically opposite factors;  Saturn is called  evil,
and Jupiter good, but when Saturn is well fortified in a horoscope it has an
exceedingly desirable effect,  and an afflicted Jupiter is the very  reverse
of  beneficial.   Thus there is a good side to each so-called "evil"  plant,
and every "good" planet has also an undesirable phase.  The signs of the Zo-
diac are said to rule certain parts of the body, but each sign has also sub-
sidiary  dominion  over the part ruled by its opposite sign;  affliction  of
Gemini may cause bronchitis, or weaken the arms and shoulders, but sciatica,
a  Sagittarius disease,  may also result.  Taurus rules the throat;  it  has
great  sympathy  with Scorpio,  the sign that rules the  generative  organs,
hence  we  note  the change of voice in boys at the time  of  puberty;  also
woman,  when she forsakes the path of chastity and lives a life  of  debauch
acquires a coarser voice.  Taurus rules the larynx,  but Mercury governs the
air  which stirs the vocal chords to vibration;  thus organic affliction  is
indicated by affliction of Taurus and Scorpio,  but functional disability by
the  position  and aspect of Mercury.  There is a similar  relation  between
Taurus  (ruling the vocal organs) and Mercury (ruling the air  which  passes
through the larynx) as between instrument and player.


[PAGE 603]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

If  Taurus (and Scorpio) are unafflicted the vocal organ is in  good  condi-
tion,  but an afflicted Mercury may nevertheless cause a functional disorder
of the speech.   The reverse may also happen, namely,  that a well fortified
Mercury partially overrides the effect of a Taurus affliction.  This is well
exemplified  in horoscope No.  9;  Saturn, Neptune and the Sun conjoined  in
Taurus cause a throat affection, but Mercury is in a sign of voice,  Gemini,
(Libra  and Aquarius are the other signs of voice) and in  conjunction  with
Jupiter.   The woman suffers constantly from throat trouble,  but as a  good
musician draws melody from a dilapidated instrument,  so,  by the aid of her
well placed Mercury,  this woman is able to express herself better than many
whose vocal organs are sound; in fact, she teaches elocution.

   Horoscope No.  3 has a singularly well fortified Mercury; there is no af-
fliction  to Taurus or Scorpio,  and the gentleman has a powerful voice  ca-
pable of filling the largest halls without effort,  yet not too loud for the
smallest; but Mercury in Leo, a bestial sign, and Saturn in Libra, a sign of
voice,  are obstructive of perfect vocalization, therefore the gentleman has
at times a certain halt or hesitancy of speech.

   It  follows  as a matter of course that disabilities of speech  are  more
easily remedied that those that are organic; patience, practice of vocal and
breathing exercises such as teachers of voice culture give,  (these are  en-
tirely different from the dangerous Hindu breathing  exercises)  are  almost


[PAGE 604]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

sure to restore normal conditions.

   Horoscopes Nos.  9,  10, and 11 have Saturn and Neptune conjoined in Tau-
rus;  as a consequence all have throat trouble,  and also a disorder of  the
genital organs.   Nos.  10 and 11 have both undergone operations for removal
of certain parts, and Mercury in Scorpio centers the thoughts of No. 10 upon
sex,  causing intense torture,  as it is impossible to gratify the  craving.
Saturn in a fixed sign is certainly a sore afflicter,  the reaper of  fruits
from  a  past life,  and if there is to be any solace it must  come  through
knowledge of the cause, prayer, and the patience engendered thereby.

                            DISORDERS OF THE MIND

   Before closing discussion of maladies peculiar to the head,  mention must
be made of insanity, though the underlying causes can only be hinted at in a
work  of  this  kind;  but  the  student  is  referred  to  THE  ROSICRUCIAN
COSMO-CONCEPTION for a thorough explanation,  and a key to the  astrological
correspondences.  Here we only give the essential facts.

   The  brain and larynx were first built by the angelic host from the  Moon
(Luna),  who used part of the sex force for that purpose, hence the intimate
connection between these organs.  "Lunacy" is often induced by misuse of the
sex force, and "lunatics" frequently have a flaw in  the  speech.  When boys


[PAGE 605]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

reach puberty the voice changes;  the speech of a fast woman becomes coarse,
and degenerate men acquire effeminate voices.   In Italy singers anxious  to
cultivate high tenor voices have become eunuchs to achieve their purpose.

   Into the system thus built by the lunar host under Jehovah,  rebel Angels
led by Lucifer,  the Spirit of Mars,  insinuated themselves,  and inculcated
passion,  sex abuse and rebellion against the rulership of the Angels of Je-
hovah.   To offset their influence our Elder Brothers from Mercury were com-
missioned  to  foster reason that many may in time learn to  guide  himself.
All the great Hierarchies work in our bodies constantly,  but the three men-
tioned have particular dominion over sex and sense;  each invests one of the
three  segments of the spinal cord.   The sublimely spiritual  hierarchy  of
Neptune  works  in  the  spinal canal  and  cerebral  ventricles  to  awaken
spiritual senses, which when evolved, enable the imprisoned spirit to pierce
the  veil of flesh and contact super-physical realms.   The Lucifer  Spirits
dominate the left cerebral hemisphere,  which will come into activity in the
future  and elevate mankind to a higher, nobler plane of life,  give us  the
power over the lower nature and make us Christlike.   The lunar Angels  hold
sway  in  the cerebellum which is the instrument of coordination.   In  this
veritable "Tree of Knowledge"  the fight is fought between forces which make
for emancipation of man and agencies which aim  to  keep  him  dependent, as


[PAGE 606]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

explained  in  Rosicrucian Christianity Series,  Lecture No.  14,  "Lucifer,
Tempter or Benefactor?"

   Such are the teachings which explain the deep reason back of astrological
dicta,  and any qualified seer may easily perceibe the various  agencies  at
work in the human body; such are few, however,  and the student of Astrology
has  reason  to  thank God day by day for the blessed science  which  is  of
greater benefit than any measure of spiritual sight.  Though the writers are
firm  believers in the law of compensation which gives to each exactly  what
he  has earned,  neither more nor less,  we cannot free ourselves  from  the
feeling  that our measure of spiritual faculties has been heaped and  shaken
down.  We feel very, very grateful for the privilege and added usefulness in
service which this gives us.  Nevertheless, were the alternatives placed be-
fore us involving choice between loss of spiritual faculties and loss of our
knowledge  of Astrology,  we should not hesitate one moment,  but decide  at
once in favor of our beloved science, neither ought this surprise anyone who
will give the matter a moment's thought.   It is true that spiritual  sight,
even  in its rudimentary form enables us to see the condition of  the  human
body to the minutest detail, and thus affords a much easier means of diagno-
sis  than Astrology,  but though it penetrates to the innermost core of  the
bone,  mere clairvoyance is superficial compared to Astrology for  it  shows
only present conditions of the body.  To  find  the  causes  which led up to


[PAGE 607]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

that  state and judge of future tendencies,  it is necessary to consult  the
memory  of nature.   We should have to do that personally,  and  this,  time
would not permit,  as were are handling hundreds of cases,  but a simple as-
trological figure, which we may commission one of our students to case,  re-
veals as much at a glance.  There are delineated the causes of mental, moral
and physical disorders; it shows accurately the stages that have been passed
and  the crises yet to come.   It also indicates the direction from which  a
remedy  may be looked for and the most favorable time for administering  the
same.   It helps people Here and Now, and the astrologer who lives up to his
privilege  has a mission so high and so holy that the office of  priest  (in
the esoteric sense) pales into insignificance by comparison.  Let the aspir-
ant to this great knowledge remember that he stands upon holier ground  that
Moses before the burning bush,  when he looks at a horoscope.   Through that
circle symbol of infinity an immortal soul is laid bare,  and woe to him who
dares to look with profane gaze,  for no matter how that soul may have  been
smirched in its pilgrimage through matter, it is essentially divine and dear
the Father,  yea,  perhaps even more precious, than the righteous who do not
need mercy and compassion.   This has been somewhat of a digression,  but we
have no apologies to offer,  for we preach Astrology as a religion and  feel
the necessity of emphasizing this phase in season and out,  if  by any means


[PAGE 608]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

we  may inculcate in others the reverence which we ourselves feel  for  this
divine science.

   Returning to the astrological consideration of insanity,  and in view  of
what has been said we may note that the horoscope shows how,  in the  spinal
canal,  rays of the various hierarchies blend,  and Astrology tabulates  the
resultant mental conditions as follows:

   People  are  not congenitally affected, who have cardinal  signs  rising,
particularly if cardinal or fixed signs also invest the Midheaven and Nadir,
rarely  become  insane.   The active nature forbids  morbid  tendencies  and
blues,  disappointment is quickly thrown off and hope springs eternal in the
cardinal breast urging to renewed struggle with conditions.  It is said that
the  exception  proves  the rule,  and when Capricorn  rises  the  saturnine
rulership  gives  a tendency to melancholy which under  certain  aggravating
circumstances may provoke suicide,  particularly when the ruler is cooped up
in the Eighth House, as we see in horoscope No. 12.   Virgo,  a common sign,
devoid of stamina,  holds the Sun, Saturn, Venus, and the Moon in this,  the
house of death; this robs the person of joy in life and impels him to end it
under stress of sorrow.   Knowledge on the part of an astrologer friend  has
so far forestalled the calamity, and it is hoped, may save the poor man from
committing so grave a crime.

   When a Fixed sign rises at birth of a normal child,  chances of  insanity
in  later life are so exceedingly remote as to be almost  negligible,  espe-
cially if a Fixed and Cardinal sign is also on the Midheaven.



[PAGE 609]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

In our extended practice,  we know of no exception;  the rigid,  set and in-
flexible  nature  of  the Fixed signs seems to protect the  mind  under  all
exigencies of stress.

   It  therefore follows that the mentally unbalanced come principally  from
those born with Common signs on the angles.   The intrinsic nature of  these
signs  if FLEXIBILITY;  as a reed in the wind people under these  signs  are
swayed hither and thither by circumstances; they have no stamina or  stabil-
ity,  and take reverses much to heart,  while they last.   Sorrow  seems  to
overwhelm them and balance is easily lost.

   It  is a distinctive feature of the Rosicrucian teachings that pupils  in
the Western world must be given every dictum,  so as to forestall  criticism
as much as possible,  for it retards development every time it is  indulged.
The  Rosicrucian  teachings therefore aim to forestall  questions  at  every
point  by giving reasons for every dictum, so that the critical mind may  be
weaned  away from this attitude.   We are ardently looking for the  day  and
reign of Christ, the Friend of man; we do not know when He comes we shall be
like Him.  Adverse criticism and skepticism were not traits of His character
and any things that will aid to eradicate these undesirable  characteristics
hastens the glad day of UNIVERSAL FRIENDSHIP.

   The reason has been given in SIMPLIFIED SCIENCE ASTROLOGY why the  Ascen-
dant  rules  the  body as a whole;  it (or its opposite) is the place of the


[PAGE 610]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

Moon at conception.   In the Bible angels are mentioned as heralds of  birth
and  their lunar home is the focus whence the spirits enter our  terrestrial
sphere on their return to physical life.  They fashion the etheric mould for
our present instrument,  and direct the growth of the fetus.   Therefore the
Ascendant  and the Moon show the organic disabilities which lead  to  mental
disorder.   The congenital idiocy resulting from lack of  proper  adjustment
between  the  vital body and the physical vehicle has  been  thoroughly  de-
scribed in the ROSICRUCIAN COSMO-CONCEPTION,  together with causes producing
the same during prenatal life.  Astrologically this condition is produced by
an affliction of the Ascendant, that is to say,  the Moon's place at concep-
tion,  which  throws  the angle of the stellar ray out of  parallax  to  the
mother's  body and the physical vehicle is built in such a manner  that  the
head  of the vital body is several inches above the skull.   Thus the  nerve
centers are askew,  preventing the ego from properly controlling its instru-
ment.  This is one of the configuration which produce idiocy and St.  Vitus'
dance.  Uranus and Neptune are especially concerned in producing this latter
phenomenon.

   Saturn is the cause of melancholy and depression.   Mars and Uranus  pro-
duce the muscular and violent forms of insanity.   Horoscopes 13 and 14  il-
lustrate these peculiarities.   No. 13 also shows the connection between pu-
berty  and  the  mental  state.   Gemini is rising,  with  Taurus  and  Mars
intercepted in the Six and Twelfth  Houses, from  whence  come  disease  and


[PAGE 611]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

confinement.   The Moon is in Taurus, which rules the larynx; she is in con-
junction  with  Neptune,  square to Mercury, and Mars is in  Scorpio,  which
rules the generative organs.  There we have at once the tendencies to a dis-
ease,  which further accentuated by the fact that Neptune in Taurus  squares
the Sun in Leo,  and Leo has rule over the heart, and is the prime factor in
circulation  upon which the life of the body depends;  thus  the  threatened
illness may be set down to trouble with the blood, produced by a nervous af-
fection.   Puberty occurs at the time when the Moon is in the opposite quar-
ter from its place at birth.   She entered Scorpio,  the opposite of  Taurus
which held her at birth,  at the time when the child was nearly twelve years
of age.   Up to that time the little girl had been bright,  but the conjunc-
tion  with  Mars in Scorpio precipitated the period and robbed  the  growing
child of vitality sorely needed at that time.  The initial periods were few,
but left her depleted of strength to withstand the square to Mercury and the
opposition of the Moon to its radical place.  (The radical place of a planet
is its position at birth.)  This affliction of Mercury,  the ruler,  by Moon
at  birth,  was thus excited and insanity showed itself in consequence.   As
the affliction comes from fixed signs, we may judge it will be impossible to
overcome, and the best that can be done for the poor soul is to pray for the
day of its release, that it may have a better chance in a future embodiment.


[PAGE 612]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

    No.  14 is the horoscope of a young man.   The common sign,  Gemini,  is
rising, the ruler, Mercury, is in the Eighth House, the house of death,  and
Uranus  and the Moon are in opposition to Mercury.   This configuration,  is
similar to that of No. 12, and has the same significance,  namely,  suicidal
tendencies under nervous strain, and this augur is all the more dangerous as
it  comes from fixed signs.   Mars and Neptune in Taurus give a  desire  for
drink  and the Sun in a watery sign accentuates this tendency.   Under  such
circumstances the man has several times tried to end his life in a most  ex-
traordinary  manner.   Jupiter and Sagittarius, square to Saturn in  Pisces,
increases  the  looseness of his morals and makes him  dishonest.   He  will
forge  and steal in order to satisfy his passion and craving for  drink  and
questionable society.   Leo on the Second House with Uranus and the Moon  in
close conjunction, shows that he spends what he gets in dissolute living.

   There is one redeeming feature in the horoscope:   Venus in the Midheaven
sextile  to his ruler,  and trine to the Moon.   He has energy and  artistic
ability which,  it is hoped, may in time rouse the better qualities and make
him a man.  But again we reiterate that with the affliction from fixed signs
the obstacle is almost insurmountable.

   In conclusion the student's attention is directed to the Third and  Ninth
Houses, which will also have an influence  on the mind.  Planets therein act


[PAGE 613]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

according to the intrinsic nature expressed in the key word of each.

                             PULMONARY DISEASES

   Horoscope  No.  15 is the chart of a woman who,  among other things,  was
afflicted with pulmonary trouble.

   Virgo is rising and Mercury,  the ruler, is trine at birth,  but unfortu-
nately  he  is combust,  a term which has been previously explained  as  the
meaning  that the heat of the Sun burns up the ray of any planet placed  too
close thereto.   The disease was not congenital however,  although the  Moon
was square to the Ascendant.  But Virgo people, we have seen,  are extremely
fond of being sick.  When once they have had a little pain, they magnify and
nurse  it  and are loath to let it go.   The square of Neptune in  Aries  to
Uranus caused St.  Vitus' dance at about the age of four years when the Moon
reached the conjunction of Saturn (which is 21:15 Capricorn) and the opposi-
tion to Uranus.  This was the beginning of her illness.   She afterwards re-
garded herself as an invalid and nursed sickness.   Saturn in opposition  to
Jupiter  added to the trouble by restricting the arterial  circulation.   At
the  time  of puberty the Moon was in Gemini in opposition to its  place  at
birth.  This excited the above mentioned square between the radical Moon and
the Ascendant;  it also caused the periods to be irregular and  troublesome.
The  blood must have an outlet and the square of Neptune to Jupiter in  Can-
cer, which rules the stomach, causes hemorrhages  when  the  Moon  came into


[PAGE 614]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

conjunction  with  the Dragon's Tail in Sagittarius (the  opposite  sign  to
Gemini), and the radical square of the Ascendant and the Moon were again ex-
cited.  Then also the lungs became affected.  In April, 1909, the progressed
Moon squared the natal positions of Saturn, Jupiter,  and Uranus.   This in-
imical force from the house of death, the Eighth, ended the life.

   As  we feel that this cannot be reiterated too often,  we repeat our  in-
junction to students never to let a patient know that there is any danger or
that there is a crisis ahead.  Particularly, please remember,  PARTICULARLY,
if it is a Virgo, for he has no chance at all if he knows what is coming.

   Horoscope  No.  16 shows the natal configuration of an  actress.   Sagit-
tarius is rising; Jupiter and the Moon are in close conjunction in Gemini, a
mercurial sign, and are supported by a trine of the Sun; thus she had a most
healthy constitution at birth, so far as the lung power is concerned.   Mars
and  Mercury are also in an airy sign,  giving energy to respiration and  it
thus seems as though this person were singularly well fortified against pul-
monary trouble.   But Saturn, Neptune and the Dragon's Tail in Taurus in the
Sixth House, give a tendency to colds and contraction of the throat.  Uranus
in  Virgo produces convulsive movements of the diaphragm and  abdominal  re-
gion;  he is square to Jupiter and the Moon, and thus we see how graphically
the  stellar  script  pictures  the  tendency  to  convulsive  coughing  and


[PAGE 615]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

hemorrhages  which  nearly brought the young woman to an  early  grave  when
Mars,  by  progression,  came  into conjunction with  the  radical  Sun  and
vivified  the  square to Saturn.   We rejoice to say that the  good  aspects
first mentioned enabled the young woman to weather the storm;  but close at-
tention  to diet,  regular living and above all absolute continence are  re-
quired to regain full physical strength,  for there is much evidence to show
that  license  played  an important part in reducing  the  life  forces  and
robbing her of the needed strength at the critical period.

                           DISEASES OF THE STOMACH

   Horoscope No.  17 presents a number of diseases,  but all have their root
in an insatiable appetite fostered by the fact that the person is a  profes-
sional chef.   Venus in Taurus gives discrimination in food, and the sextile
to Mercury in Cancer causes the mind to run in the direction of preparations
wherewith  to tickle the palate.   But the Moon being ruler of  Cancer,  the
rising   sign,   which   has  dominion  over   the   stomach,   shows   that
over-indulgences  of the appetite will result disastrously.   The  distended
stomach presses upon the heart, of which the Sun, our life-giver,  is ruler.
This planet is in Gemini, the sign which has dominion over the lungs, square
to  Mars in Pisces.   Mars rules the iron in the blood and the Sun gives  us
oxygen,  thus this square shows that the blood will lack in the  life-giving
element.  The conjunction of the Sun with Uranus in  Gemini  produces  spas-


[PAGE 616]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

modic motion of the lungs and labored inspiration to  obtain sufficient oxy-
gen  wherewith to supply the system; thus we have the condition called asth-
ma. Saturn  and Jupiter are in Virgo which rules the abdomen,  square to the
Sun and  Uranus  in  Gemini, showing a lack of circulation and a tendency to
ulcerous growths, and there is a general lack of nutrition in the whole sys-
tem because of the great energy required to eliminate waste from  the  enor-
mous quantities of food which this person  consumes.  Sad  to  say, however,
persons in  that occupation protest that they cannot help tasting,  and that
in spite of  all ills they must eat to excess.  It were wiser of course,  to
see  another profession and train the system to moderation.

   In  horoscope No.  18 we have the natal configurations of  another  chef;
they are similar to those delineated in No.  17.   Cancer,  the sign of  the
stomach,  is rising, with Mars and the Sun close to the Ascendant;  thus the
forces  of this individual will be directed principally toward the  stomach,
and the opposition of the Moon shows disastrous results which eventually re-
sulted  from gratifying his ravenous appetite.  The Sun is life and  motion,
Mars is dynamic energy,  and the excessive activity centered in the  stomach
to take care of digestion causes this organ to be inflamed.  Nature is not a
jerry-builder;  she builds substantially and well, or our bodies could never
stand  the  abuse  we  give them as well as they do, but even the healthiest


[PAGE 617]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

organism must give way in time under such dreadful strain.   As indicated by
the Sun and Mars, an ulcer developed from the internal heat, ate through the
stomach and relieved the poor soul of its misused body.   Neptune in Taurus,
the sign of the palate, was of course also a contributing factor.  It is not
to be supposed however, that anyone who has Cancer rising or many planets in
Cancer,  is necessarily going to die of the disease to which that  name  has
been given,  but it would be the part of wisdom to train children with  such
conditions to abstain from overeating,  for it is a truism that more  people
die from overeating than from starvation.

                            DISEASES OF THE HEART

   As the heart is the seat of physical life,  it natural ruler is the  Sun.
The solar sign is Leo.  But it is a mistake to think that palpitation of the
heart is necessarily shown by an affliction to the sign Leo.  Indeed,  there
are  many cases where overindulgence of the appetite indicated by  the  sign
Cancer distends the stomach, which presses upon the heart producing what the
person then believes to be heart trouble.   This was the case in  horoscopes
Nos.  17 and 18; both believed their heart trouble to be the primal cause of
the  illness under which they were suffering,  while in reality it was  only
one of the effects.

   But No.  3 shows a case of organic weakness of the heart.   The Sun is at
home in the fixed sign  Leo  and  receives  a square from Saturn the reaper;


[PAGE 618]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

thus  it is evident that the heart was a weak link in the  constitution  and
would  cause  trouble  in time,  unless care was  taken.   Unfortunately  of
course, parents knew less about Astrology a generation ago than today,  when
the  science is coming to the fore.  The energy of which this  horoscope  is
full, was allowed to spend itself unrestrained with no thought given to com-
ing disaster.

   Venus  and Jupiter,  the planets ruling the venous and arterial  circula-
tion, are in opposition.  Venus is in Gemini the sign of the lungs, and when
the Sun progressed to the square of Venus'  radical place,  and Uranus tran-
sited the Sixth House,  illness began; breathing became labored as indicated
by the square of the life-giver to the lungs.   Uranus in opposition to  his
natal place in Cancer produced the convulsive movement known as the  stomach
cough,  and thus for years this illness robbed the man of vital energy;  but
these afflictions passed and because of attention to right living the system
has been left none the worse for the experience.  Moreover, the suffering of
the soul has resulted in growth that he might not otherwise have obtained.

   Horoscope  No.  19  shows another case of heart  disease.   The  Sun  and
Neptune are conjunct in the Eighth House,  in opposition to Mars.   As  this
conjunction is in the sign Gemini and in the house of death,  it is easy  to
see the portent.  The dynamic energy of Mars tears everything to pieces, ac-
celerates motion, causes palpitation etc.  The  Sun  and  Neptune  in Gemini


[PAGE 619]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

shows a likelihood of a hemorrhage of the lungs,  resulting from over activ-
ity of the heart.  The Moon and Saturn in Leo show the obstructed passage of
the  blood,  for the keynote of Saturn is obstruction and retardation:  thus
the  valves  of the heart become leaky and the backward flow  of  the  blood
called regurgitation takes place.

   Leo also rules the spinal cord and malefic configurations there may  pro-
duce hunchback and kindred disabilities.

   Horoscope  No.  20  is the figure of a beautiful  boy,  well  formed  and
healthy, who became afflicted with curvature of the spine.  Here we find the
Moon in conjunction with the Dragon's Tail in the Twelfth House,  square  to
Saturn  and Uranus in Scorpio.   At five and one half years of age the  Moon
had progressed to the square of its own place; this and the conjunction with
Saturn  and Uranus in Scorpio,  brought on his affliction.   After  enduring
eight years of torture he died,  having been taken from one free  dispensary
to another and used by the doctors to practice on.   Each doctor tried  anew
cure.   He was plaster casts for years but to no purpose.   The  mothers  is
represented by Neptune in conjunction with Mars,  careless and of  dissolute
habits;  she was glad of the opportunity to place the boy anywhere in  order
to shirk the responsibility of caring for him.   The boy died when the  Moon
had progressed to an opposition of its own place; it was also then in square
to Uranus and Saturn.


[PAGE 620]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                           DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS

   The  kidneys are ruled by Libra and Scorpio both.   That is to  say,  the
functional activity of secretion of urine comes from Libra,  but the bladder
and urethra through which elimination takes place are ruled by Scorpio.  Re-
nal stones and gravel would result from an affliction to Libra, for they are
formed int he peduncle of the kidneys.  These would also result from an  af-
fliction to Scorpio,  causing faulty elimination and consequent retention of
calcareous matter in the system.  Diseases of the ureters are under Libra.

   Horoscopes Nos.  3 and 21 are examples of how the stars indicate diseases
of the kidneys.   In both cases Saturn is in or near an angle and square  to
the Sun, and in his sign of exaltation.  Libra, which rules the kidneys,  is
also elevated.   This latter point may not be apparent to beginners who look
at No.  3 and find Saturn, as they would say, DOWN in the Fourth House,  but
the nadir of the birth place in Midheaven or Zenith of an opposite point  on
earth,  and  planets at either of these points are found to  have  an  added
power.

   In the two examples mentioned,  Saturn,  the planet of obstruction,  pre-
vents  secretion  of urine but does not interfere with elimination  of  that
which has been secreted.   But in horoscope No. 8 where he is posited in the
sign Scorpio square to Mercury, we have a case where the formation of gravel
and renal stones is shown to result from incomplete  elimination.  A  person


[PAGE 621]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

with  such a configuration ought to be extremely careful not to  drink  hard
water,  for this may cause a painful ailment.  Only filtered water should be
used for purposes of cooking and drinking.  Sour milk,  buttermilk and grape
juice are great solvents.  We may further to say that to boil water will not
soften it,  and the fur which gathers in the tea kettle where hard water has
been boiled is no evidence to the contrary, for that scaly formation was ob-
tained from the water which evaporated;  what remains in the kettle for  use
is as hard as ever.

   In horoscope No. 7 we find Saturn in Scorpio square to Mars.  Saturn pro-
duces the obstruction of the blood known as hemorrhoids, and the dynamic en-
ergy of Mars causes rupture of the congested places,  thus we have the pain-
ful  bleeding  well  known  to so many sufferers.   As  a  secondary  result
constipation  adds to the malady,  because persons afflicted with the  first
named disease shrink from the added pain of the stool, and do not respond to
nature's call.   A prolonged rest seems to be the only physical means  which
is really effective.   Nature however, will be very much aided by proper os-
teopathic manipulations, and a diet consisting principally of milk.

                         ACCIDENTS TO HIPS AND ARMS

   Sagittarius rising,  or in the Sixth or Twelfth House is responsible  for
broken bones and accidents.   Under the chapter on the Dragon's Tail we  saw
how the person described in horoscope No. 6 fell upon  the ice and broke her


[PAGE 622]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

hip.   No.  21 has even stronger indications of accidents and  probably  the
life will end in an untoward manner.   Sagittarius is rising,  Saturn is ex-
alted in the Midheaven exactly square to the Sun, and Neptune is elevated at
the  nadir also squaring the Moon; thus both luminaries are  afflicted.   As
the  Sun  is lord of the house of death these auguries presage  an  untimely
end.   The only hope lies in the sextile of Jupiter to the Sun  which  gives
hair-breadth  escapes.   This man's life has been jeopardized many times  in
railroad wrecks,  automobile accidents,  etc., but although he has thus been
near  the gate of death many times,  the benefic ray of Jupiter has  so  far
preserved his life and no bones have yet been broken.   The woman  described
in horoscope No.  22 has not been so fortunate;  her arms and legs have been
accidentally broken several times,  for Mars and the Moon are in Sagittarius
in the  Twelfth House,  also in opposition to Jupiter.   The Sun and Mercury
are  in  the  Eighth House in opposition to Neptune and  these  planets  are
square the first mentioned positions.  Saturn, her ruler, is square to Venus
so that she attracts accidents and never escapes being hurt.

                            DISEASES OF THE LIMBS

   In horoscope No.  7 we find Mars in Aquarius square to Saturn,  and  from
this  affliction it is evident that there is an obstruction of the blood  in
the lower limbs, which produces varicose veins.  Horoscope No. 17 shows Mars


[PAGE 623]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

in the sign Pisces in opposition to Saturn and Jupiter.  It is the nature of
Saturn to obstruct, and his conjunction with Jupiter shows that the circula-
tion is poor.   Mars in Pisces produces heat,  inflammation and swelling  of
the  feet,  because of the stagnated blood.   We have already seen that  the
person there described is gluttonously inclined, and therefore it is no won-
der that stagnation of the blood produces such painful afflictions as  indi-
cated by these configurations.  The remedy of course if self-evident;  it is
moderation.


[PAGE 624]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

                             CHART #1:

HOUSE CUSPS:                          PLANETS:

ASC: 6:07 VIRGO     SUN: 24:47 VIRGO            SATURN: 15:27 SCORPIO
MC:  0 GEMINI       MOON: 24:32 CAPRICORN       URANUS: 21:29 SCORPIO
11H: 6 CANCER       MERCURY: 20:28 LIBRA        NEPTUNE: 20:18 GEMINI
12H: 9 LEO          VENUS: 13:09 LIBRA          DRAGON'S TAIL: 22:44 LEO
2H:  28 VIRGO       MARS: 17:03 GEMINI
3H:  26 LIBRA       JUPITER: 27:40 LEO



                            CHART #2:

HOUSE CUSPS:                          PLANETS:

ASC: 20:36 GEMINI   SUN: 14:00 ARIES            SATURN: 9:06R LIBRA
MC:  24 AQUARIUS    MOON: 9:55 SCORPIO          URANUS: 9:44R SCORPIO
11H: 25 PISCES      MERCURY: 9:45R ARIES        NEPTUNE: 9:04 GEMINI
12H: 7 TAURUS       VENUS: 6:30 ARIES
2H:  10 CANCER      MARS: 3:56 GEMINI
3H:  0 LEO          JUPITER: 2:03 TAURUS




[PAGE 625]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES


                              CHART #3:

HOUSE CUSPS:                          PLANETS:

ASC: 6:41 LEO       SUN: 0:14 LEO                SATURN: 24:07 LIBRA
MC: 10 ARIES        MOON: 4:54 LEO               URANUS: 1:36 CANCER
11H: 21 TAURUS      MERCURY: 20:58 LEO           NEPTUNE: 10:35R ARIES
12H: 5 CANCER       VENUS: 14:44 GEMINI          DRAGON'S HEAD: 25:27 LIBRA
2H: 21 LEO          MARS: 5:53 VIRGO             PART OF FORTUNE: 11:31 LEO
3H: 12 VIRGO        JUPITER: 20:03R SAGITTARIUS



                            CHART #4:

HOUSE CUSPS:                          PLANETS:

ASC: 2:41 GEMINI    SUN: 10:25 SAGITTARIUS       SATURN: 27:22R TAURUS
MC: 9 AQUARIUS      MOON: 10:08 CAPRICORN        URANUS: 9:27R TAURUS
11H: 7 PISCES       MERCURY: 16:13R SAGITTARIUS  DRAGON'S TAIL: 10:24
12H: 16 ARIES       VENUS: 26:50 CAPRICORN                      SAGITTARIUS
2H: 26 GEMINI       MARS: 6:48 VIRGO
3H: 17 CANCER       JUPITER: 0:10 SAGITTARIUS





[PAGE 626]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS


                                CHART #5:

HOUSE CUSPS:                        PLANETS:

ASC: 26:20 GEMINI   SUN: 16:10 ARIES           SATURN: 11:42 GEMINI
MC: 10 PISCES       MOON: 4:53 SAGITTARIUS     URANUS: 14:58 TAURUS
11H: 13 ARIES       MERCURY: 18:50 PISCES      NEPTUNE: 16:48 PISCES
12H: 21 TAURUS      VENUS: 13:17 TAURUS        PROGRESSED SUN: 11:28
2H: 19 CANCER       MARS: 16:56 ARIES                          GEMINI
3H: 12 LEO          JUPITER: 24:30 AQUARIUS    PROGRESSED MOON: 16:30
                                                                CAPRICORN


                                CHART #6:

HOUSE CUSPS:                        PLANETS:

ASC: 4:49 CANCER    SUN: 12:30 PISCES          SATURN: 22:23R LIBRA
MC: 12 PISCES       MOON: 12:08 TAURUS         URANUS: 27:26 AQUARIUS 
11H: 9 ARIES        MERCURY: 24:44R PISCES     NEPTUNE: 2:54 AQUARIUS
12H: 28 TAURUS      VENUS: 25:45 CAPRICORN
2H: 24 CANCER       MARS: 5:25 CANCER
3H: 16 LEO          JUPITER: 3:45 GEMINI



[PAGE 627]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES


                                CHART #7:

HOUSE CUSPS:                        PLANETS:

ASC: 15:26 ARIES    SUN: 9:05 PISCES           SATURN: 12:16R SCORPIO
MC: 8 CAPRICORN     MOON: 28:07 LEO            URANUS: 29:36 GEMINI
11H: 0 AQUARIUS     MERCURY: 9:05 PISCES       NEPTUNE: 9:08 PISCES
12H: 29 AQUARIUS    VENUS: 10:36 PISCES        DRAGON'S HEAD: 13:39 ARIES
2H: 22 TAURUS       MARS: 10:12 AQUARIUS
3H: 17 GEMINI       JUPITER: 23:21 CAPRICORN



                               CHART #8:

HOUSE CUSPS:                       PLANETS:

ASC: 23:14 LEO      SUN: 19:45 CANCER          SATURN: 17:32R SCORPIO
MC: 17 TAURUS       MOON: 3:22 SAGITTARIUS     URANUS: 9:19 CANCER
11H: 21 GEMINI      MERCURY: 14:53 LEO         NEPTUNE: 15:05 ARIES
12H: 24 CANCER      VENUS: 29:36 GEMINI
2H: 16 VIRGO        MARS: 11:57 VIRGO
3H: 14 LIBRA        JUPITER: 7:09R PISCES





[PAGE 628]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS


                               CHART #9:

HOUSE CUSPS:                      PLANETS:

ASC: 21:10 SCORPIO  SUN: 22:50 TAURUS          SATURN: 16:36 TAURUS
MC: 12 VIRGO        MOON: 6:22 ARIES           URANUS: 14:27R VIRGO
11H: 12 LIBRA       MERCURY: 6:03 GEMINI       NEPTUNE: 16:31 TAURUS
12H: 7 SCORPIO      VENUS: 13:30 GEMINI
2H: 21 SAGITTARIUS  MARS: 2:45 LEO
3H: 2 AQUARIUS      JUPITER: 5:01 GEMINI



                              CHART #10:

HOUSE CUSPS:                      PLANETS:

ASC: 21:50 SAGITTARIUS   SUN: 18:33 LIBRA           SATURN: 10:34R TAURUS
MC: 15 LIBRA             MOON: 10:45 GEMINI         URNAUS: 16:17 VIRGO
11H: 11 SCORPIO          MERCURY: 12:34 SCORPIO     NEPTUNE: 15:53R TAURUS
12H: 2 SAGITTARIUS       VENUS: 17:05 VIRGO         DRAGON'S TAIL: 11:38
2H: 28 CAPRICORN         MARS: 7:38 CANCER                         GEMINI
3H: 9 PISCES             JUPITER: 25:04R TAURUS



[PAGE 629]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES


                            CHART #11:

HOUSE CUSPS:                      PLANETS:

ASC: 23:31 LIBRA      SUN: 9:80 TAURUS         SATURN: 14:51 TAURUS
MC: 28 CANCER         MOON: 2:19 LIBRA         URANUS: 14:38R SCORPIO
11H: 1 VIRGO          MERCURY: 6:45 TAURUS     NEPTUNE: 16:00 TAURUS
12H: 0 LIBRA          VENUS: 22:37 TAURUS      DRAGON'S HEAD: 1:02 
2H: 21 SCORPIO        MARS: 25:36 CANCER                      SAGITTARIUS
3H: 23 SAGITTARIUS    JUPITER: 1:25 GEMINI



                           CHART #12:

HOUSE CUSPS:                     PLANETS:

ASC: 14:52 CAPRICORN    SUN: 28:33 VIRGO           SATURN: 26:13 VIRGO
MC: 9 SCORPIO           MOON: 2:51 VIRGO           URANUS: 22:44 GEMINI
11H: 2 SAGITTARIUS      MERCURY: 21:40 LIBRA       NEPTUNE: 2:33R ARIES
12H: 23 SAGITTARIUS     VENUS: 8:27 VIRGO
2H: 27 AQUARIUS         MARS: 16:44R ARIES
3H: 8 ARIES             JUPITER: 4:45 LIBRA



[PAGE 630]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS


                              CHART #13:

HOUSE CUSPS:                      PLANETS:

ASC: 10:57 GEMINI      SUN: 29:02 LEO             SATURN: 18:04 CANCER
MC: 17 AQUARIUS        MOON: 21:36 TAURUS         URANUS: 5:43 LIBRA
11H: 17 PISCES         MERCURY: 19:05R LEO        NEPTUNE: 27:49 TAURUS
12H: 27 ARIES          VENUS: 3:01 LEO
2H: 3 CANCER           MARS: 0:08 SCORPIO
3H: 24 CANCER          JUPITER: 6:16 LIBRA


                              CHART #14:

ASC: 24:16 GEMINI       SUN: 17:47 PISCES           SATURN: 0:56 PISCES
MC: 18 ARIES            MOON: 20:02 LEO             URANUS: 16:46 LEO
11H: 14 TAURUS          MERCURY: 20:25 AQUARIUS     NEPTUNE: 1:09 TAURUS
12H: 5 GEMINI           VENUS: 26:25 ARIES
2H: 2 LEO               MARS: 6:43 TAURUS
3H: 13 VIRGO            JUPITER: 1:52 SAGITTARIUS



[PAGE 631]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

                              CHART #15:

ASC: 3:33 VIRGO     SUN: 5:47 TAURUS           URANUS: 27:21 CANCER
MC: 29 TAURUS       MOON: 5:02 SAGITTARIUS     NEPTUNE: 24:14 ARIES
11H: 3 CANCER       MERCURY: 4:22R TAURUS      PROGRESSED SUN: 11 GEMINI
12H: 5 LEO          VENUS: 14:06 VENUS         PROGRESSED MOON: 20:29 ARIES
2H: 27 VIRGO        MARS: 11:11 TAURUS         PROGRESSED ASC: 2:37 LIBRA
3H: 25 LIBRA        JUPITER: 22:22 CANCER      PROGRESSED M.C.: 3 CANCER


                              CHART #16:

ASC: 1:44 SAGITTARIUS  SUN: 27:10 AQUARIUS       SATURN: 19:56 TAURUS
MC: 20 VIRGO           MOON: 18:50 GEMINI        URANUS: 22:18R VIRGO
11H: 19 LIBRA          MERCURY: 8:13R AQUARIUS   NEPTUNE: 16:10 TAURUS
12H: 12 SCORPIO        VENUS: 10:35 CAPRICORN
2H: 3 CAPRICORN        MARS: 10:22 AQUARIUS
3H: 12 AQUARIUS        JUPITER: 21:21 GEMINI





[PAGE 632]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS


                             CHART #17:

ASC: 28:47 CANCER     SUN: 22:54 GEMINI         SATURN: 16:26 VIRGO
MC: 5 ARIES           MOON: 20:47 CAPRICORN     URANUS: 16:43 GEMINI
11H: 13 TAURUS        MERCURY: 15:02 CANCER     NEPTUNE: 3:44 ARIES
12H: 25 GEMINI        VENUS: 10:39 TAURUS
2H: 15 LEO            MARS: 16:05 PISCES
3H: 6 VIRGO           JUPITER: 18:50 VIRGO


                             CHART #18:

ASC: 7:18 CANCER    SUN: 8:06 CANCER          SATURN: 13:16R AQUARIUS
MC: 4 PISCES        MOON: 12:22 CAPRICORN     URANUS: 5:35 LEO
11H: 7 ARIES        MERCURY: 9:40 LEO         NEPTUNE: 0:31 TAURUS
12H: 11 TAURUS      VENUS: 10:04 LEO
2H: 23 CANCER       MARS: 9:42 CANCER
3H: 11 LEO          JUPITER: 24:20 VIRGO
  


[PAGE 633]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES


                             CHART #19:

ASC: 21:36 LIBRA      SUN: 4:19 GEMINI          SATURN: 27:38 LEO
MC: 0 LEO             MOON: 19:11 LEO           URANUS: 23:08R LIBRA
11H: 5 VIRGO          MERCURY: 11:10 GEMINI     NEPTUNE: 4:15 GEMINI
12H: 1 LIBRA          VENUS: 28:28 GEMINI
2H: 17 SCORPIO        MARS: 7:10R SAGITTARIUS
3H: 20 SAGITTARIUS    JUPITER: 12:07 AQUARIUS


                             CHART #20:

ASC: 13:35 VIRGO     SUN: 10:46 LIBRA          SATURN: 17:04 SCORPIO
MC: 12 GEMINI        MOON: 23:14 LEO           URANUS: 22:14 SCORPIO
11H: 13 CANCER       MERCURY: 21:54R LIBRA     NEPTUNE: 20:17R GEMINI
12H: 16 LEO          VENUS: 3:50 SCORPIO       DRAGON'S HEAD: 21:53
2H: 10 LIBRA         MARS: 23:53 GEMINI                       AQUARIUS
3H: 10 SCORPIO       JUPITER: 1:00 VIRGO



[PAGE 634]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS


                            CHART #21:

ASC: 26:51 SAGITTARIUS   SUN: 17:26 CAPRICORN      SATURN: 17:45 LIBRA
MC: 20 LIBRA             MOON: 5:16 CAPRICORN      URANUS: 22:06R GEMINI
11H: 16 SCORPIO          MERCURY: 6:30 AQUARIUS    NEPTUNE: 3:18 ARIES
12H: 7 SAGITTARIUS       VENUS: 2:53 SAGITTARIUS
2H: 5 AQUARIUS           MARS: 15:54 SAGITTARIUS
3H: 16 PISCES            JUPITER: 21:41 SCORPIO


                             CHART #22:

ASC: 4:17 CAPRICORN    SUN: 22:24 VIRGO            SATURN: 8:18 LEO
MC: 17 SCORPIO         MOON: 26:26 SAGITTARIUS     URANUS: 3:20R GEMINI
11H: 5 SAGITTARIUS     MERCURY: 21:00R VIRGO       NEPTUNE: 22:00 PISCES
12H: 19 SAGITTARIUS    VENUS: 8:03 SCORPIO
2H: 0 PISCES           MARS: 18:59 SAGITTARIUS
3H: 20 ARIES           JUPITER: 20:37 GEMINI



[PAGE 635]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

                     NO. 23.--INSANITY AND SPIRIT CONTROL


                              CHART #23:

[FLAT CHART]
ASC: 0 ARIES         SUN: 21:15 PISCES          SATURN: 19:20 CAPRICORN
MC: 0 CAPRICORN      MOON: 16:37 ARIES          URANUS: 27:24R LEO
11H: 0 AQUARIUS      MERCURY: 21:50 PISCES      NEPTUNE: 22:31 ARIES
12H: 0 PISCES        VENUS: 18:48 AQUARIUS
2H: 0 TAURUS         MARS: 7:17 ARIES
3H: 0 GEMINI         JUPITER: 19:53 CANCER





   In judging this horoscope we look first to the mentality,  as this is al-
ways the most important factor in the treatment of a patient.   Mercury  and
the Moon are the two principal factors in determining this point, though, of
course,  all the planets have their bearing on that as well as on any  other
subject.   Here we find that Mercury is combust and that it is with the  Sun
in  the Common sign,  Pisces.   That in itself is not a very good augur;  we
further find that the Moon is  in  conjunction  with  Neptune in Aries, that


[PAGE 636]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

it is square to both Saturn and Jupiter, and that therefore the mind must be
of a weak and unstable nature.  Mars, the Moon and Neptune in Aries would be
in themselves make a person erratic, but when we find, as here, that Luna is
square to Jupiter, the planet of religion, also to Saturn, the planet of ob-
struction and negation, it naturally causes a very evil condition.   The op-
position of Jupiter to Saturn shows that whatever desire for religion  Jupi-
ter might engender, would always be opposed by the influence of Saturn,  who
would counsel "Don't,  don't,"  causing the person to deride what he or  she
really wants to believe.   It is a common experience that that which we can-
not understand,  appears chaotic and erratic to our minds.   Neptune is  the
planet of fear and chaos to us,  for the human race has not learned to  live
up to its high vibrations,  and this, with the Moon,  square to Uranus makes
that chaotic mental state which we find in this circle.   To offset this in-
fluence there is the trine of Jupiter, the planet of religion,  to both  the
Sun and Mercury; but even this influence there is the trine of Jupiter,  the
planet  of religion,  to both the Sun and Mercury;  but even this  influence
will not be able to break the condition entirely,  though there is no  doubt
this  great  redeeming power has had an effect is staving off the  evil  day
when  the mind will break down entirely.   As usual,  the marching  orbs  in
their  circling  dance come to a point where the string of  each  aspect  is
touched  which them produces the tome of either harmony or discord that  im-
pels  us to actions which we call good or evil;  so also in this case.   The
time marked on the clock of destiny  by  the  hand  of  God was April, 1913;


[PAGE 637]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

then the lunation fell in conjunction with the radical Moon in Aries.   This
naturally excited the radical square to Saturn and Jupiter,  also their  op-
position,  and thus the climax was precipitated; the person became violently
insane.

   We may look for the immediate cause the precipitated that calamity to the
radical position of Neptune and Uranus.  These,  the octaves of Mercury  and
Venus,  in  a square position will always bring the person in  contact  with
spirits who have left the body,  or who have never inhabited a body such  as
we have at the present time.

   During aspects like the above, they would have an excellent chance to use
this  poor  person as a tool for their nefarious  practices,  for  naturally
those  spirits which come under a square are not what we would call good  in
any  respect;  they have no benevolent designs for helping their victim,  no
matter what they may profess in that direction.

   The question them comes:   What can we do for a person in that condition?
We have a good aspect to the Moon and Neptune,  which is the sextile of  Ve-
nus.   Neptune rules music--classical string music in particular--and  Venus
in Aquarius gives the person a love of just that kind of music,  which  will
soothe the mind.   This configuration also gives a love of bright colors and
sunshine  which  will help to tone the system.   She should not  be  allowed
books, but should have a complete rest from all mental effort, the brightest
conversation  possible,  and  a  vegetarian  diet.  With  these  there  is a


[PAGE 638]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

probability  that the evil configuration may be overcome and the person  re-
stored to mental health, though that will never be robust.

    NO. 24.--HEART TROUBLE, INSUFFICIENT OXYGENATION, EYE TROUBLE, DEATH

                            CHART #24:

ASC: 16:07 SAGITTARIUS   SUN: 24:43 ARIES         SATURN: 7:26 GEMINI
MC: 6 LIBRA              MOON: 6:13 SAGITTARIUS   URANUS: 24:57R VIRGO
11H: 4 SCORPIO           MERCURY: 10:07 TAURUS    NEPTUNE: 19:48 TAURUS
12H: 26 SCORPIO          VENUS: 9:26 GEMINI
2H: 20 CAPRICORN         MARS: 8:04 LEO
3H: 0 PISCES             JUPITER: 25:28 CANCER




   GOOD ASPECTS:  Mars trine the Moon, sextile Saturn; Uranus trine Neptune;
Jupiter sextile Neptune and Uranus.

   BAD ASPECTS:   The Moon conjunction Antares, opposition Saturn and Venus;
the Sun conjunction Dragon's Tail, square Jupiter; Mercury square Mars.


[PAGE 639]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

   The  Moon on the Ascendant in Sagittarius makes the patient restless  and
unstable,  but not shiftless, because the Moon is also trine to Mars.   This
gives her much more energy than usually possessed by Sagittarians.  Even the
opposition of the Moon to Saturn and Venus,  which robs life of its joys and
makes her melancholy,  is,  in a certain sense, help; it gives her a persis-
tence and resistance that will not allow her to give in to disease.  Mercury
square  Mars shows that she has a very quick temper,  and as Mercury  is  in
Taurus,  the sign of voice, the unfortunate characteristic will find expres-
sion  in  an unbridled tongue.   This will hurt her very  seriously  from  a
physical standpoint (not to speak of the even more deplorable spiritual  in-
juries),  for Mars is in Leo, the sign of the heart, and that always predis-
poses  to palpitation.   He is sextile to Saturn,  but even good aspects  to
Saturn are physically inimical.  The sun, which is ruler of the heart, is in
conjunction with the saturnine Dragon's Tail.   The nerves also are affected
by the square of Mars to Mercury,  hence the heart is far from normally bal-
anced, and the outbursts of temper which this person is apt to indulge in on
the slightest provocation may cause heart failure at some time,  by  putting
an undue strain on this organ and interfering with the already sluggish cir-
culation,  which  is  shown  by the square of Jupiter to  the  Sun  and  the
Dragon's Tail,  also by the conjunction of Venus with Saturn,  and their op-
position  to the Moon; Jupiter and Venus being governors respectively of the


[PAGE 640]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

arterial and venous circulations.

   The head is particularly congested because the Sun conjunction the satur-
nine Dragon's Tail occurs in Aries,  the sign of the head,  and Saturn,  the
planet of obstruction,  is in Gemini, the sign of the lungs,  in conjunction
with  Venus.   This shows interference with the circulation  of  the  venous
blood in the lungs.   The Moon,  which governs the tidal air,  is in opposi-
tion,  showing that an insufficient amount of air is inspired into the lungs
to  cleanse the blood of its poisonous carbon dioxide,  and the presence  of
Saturn shows a hardening of the tissues, which is apt to develop into tuber-
culosis.  You will also notice that Jupiter, the ruler of the Ascendant,  is
in the Eight House square to the Sun and the saturnine Dragon's Tail in  the
Fourth House,  and all are in Cardinal signs.  This is a strong testimony of
an accidental death,  and Mars in the Eighth House,  in the sign Leo,  which
rules the heart,  shows that hemorrhages may be the cause which will end the
physical life.

   If  this person had been taken hold of in time and  taught  self-control,
this  serious condition could probably have been avoided;  even now a  frank
statement  concerning  the  great danger that undue  excitement  may  cause,
should help her govern her temper, and thus lengthen life.

   The  Moon conjunction Antares,  and opposition to Saturn shows  that  the
eyes are  in  danger  also, and Saturn in Gemini, which is a mercurial sign,


[PAGE 641]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

shows nervous affection.  The conjunction with Venus would suggest a conges-
tion  of  the muscles of the eyes, which may be greatly relieved  by  osteo-
pathic treatment.

   A healer with Leo rising, and Saturn not in Gemini, would be best able to
handle the case.

                 NO. 25--HEART TROUBLE, TUBERCULOSIS, KIDNEYS


                             CHART #25:

ASC: 21:28 VIRGO          SUN: 18:49 LEO           SATURN: 9:40 VIRGO
MC: 21 GEMINI             MOON: 26:15 LIBRA        URANUS: 15:41 GEMINI
11H: 22 CANCER            MERCURY: 0:02 LEO        NEPTUNE: 1:17R ARIES
12H: 23 LEO               VENUS: 13:37 VIRGO       DRAGON'S TAIL: 11:38
2H: 18 LIBRA              MARS: 23:58 LEO                         GEMINI
3H: 19 SCORPIO            JUPITER: 3:26 VIRGO







   We judge first the mental calibre of our patient.   Four Common signs are
on the angles,  and this at once describes the nature as weak and  vacillat-
ing.   Mercury  square  the  Moon  further  accentuates  this  wavering  and


[PAGE 642]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

flightiness  of her mind,  and Saturn conjunction Venus and Jupiter  in  the
Twelfth House robs life of its joy,  making this woman subject to melancholy
and morbid fear.  This characteristic is somewhat ameliorated by the sextile
of the Sun to Uranus,  which fosters altruism,  and the trine of Mercury  to
Neptune,  which gives spiritual perception,  thus aiding to dispel gloom  by
directing  the  mind  from sorrows which are but fleeting,  to  the  eternal
verities.   To sum up, she is prone to be either "down in the dumps," or "up
in  the air,"  and it is necessary to strive to cure her of both  depression
and elation,  which are alike harmful.  Equipoise must be cultivated to  aid
in  attaining and maintaining health.   Were Fixed signs on the angles  this
would be next to impossible,  but with Common signs there she is more adapt-
able and reachable.

   Regarding  the  ailments to which this woman is subject,  we  note  first
Uranus in high elevation, conjunction the Dragon's Tail,  whose influence is
saturnine, that is to say, obstructive, crystallizing, and hardening.   Both
are in the airy sign Gemini,  which governs the lungs,  and square to Saturn
in the Twelfth House, which denotes confinement-in prison, hospitals or upon
a  sickbed.   This gives us at once the key to the trouble.   Sometimes  the
tidal  air is almost stopped by the Dragon's Tail and the square of  Saturn;
Uranus  prevents asphyxiation by the conclusive movement of the lungs  knows
as coughing,  which  clears  away  the  obstruction and enables the heart to


[PAGE 643]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

again circulate the blood.

   The  blood is unable to throw off its poisonous carbonic acid because  of
the obstructive power of the Dragon's Tail in Gemini, and the square of Sat-
urn  to Uranus in the sign of the lungs.   The arterial and venous  circula-
tions are also impeded by the conjunction of Jupiter and Venus with  Saturn,
hence,  malnutrition and carbonic acid poisoning are in evidence.  The hard-
ening of the lungs and consequent cough, label the case as tuberculosis.

   Elimination  of urine is retarded by the square of Mercury to  the  Moon,
which is in the latter part of Libra, the sign of the kidneys.  Mercury gov-
erns  the  sensory nerves,  while Mars rules the motor nerves  and  muscles.
Mars  is in good aspect,  showing that the mechanical apparatus is  in  good
condition,  but that the trouble is nervous.   This may be alleviated by ma-
nipulations,  and so may the sluggishness of the bowels indicated by  Saturn
in Virgo.  The Mars hour would be the best time, the Sun hour next.  Besides
this  treatment dry rubs with coarse gloves will stimulate the skin and  aid
in  eliminating carbonic acid from the system.   Whole wheat bread  toasted,
plenty  of  fresh  milk given while still warm (for  them  it  contains  the
maximum  quantity  of the ether which is so necessary to restore  the  vital
body),  and  as much green uncooked food as the patient can take  should  be
given, for that also contains a maximum  of  ether.  Onions are particularly


[PAGE 644]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

valuable nerve-builders.

   A person with Taurus rising,  whose Saturn is not in the degrees included
within  the patient's First or Sixth House,  will make the best  healer  for
this patient.

                             NO. 26--TUBERCULOSIS


ASC: 8:56 VIRGO         SUN: 5:01 TAURUS         SATURN: 8:33 GEMINI
MC: 5 GEMINI            MOON: 24:09 ARIES        URANUS: 24:35R VIRGO
11H: 10 CANCER          MERCURY: 25:20 TAURUS    NEPTUNE: 2:09 TAURUS
12H: 12 LEO             VENUS: 20:16 GEMINI
2H: 3 LIBRA             MARS: 11:35 LEO
3H: 2 SCORPIO           JUPITER: 26:22 CANCER







   GOOD ASPECTS:  Uranus trine Mercury and Neptune, Moon sextile Venus; Sat-
urn sextile Mars.

   BAD ASPECTS:   Moon  conjunction Dragon's  Tail;  (Dragon's  Tail:  22-33
 Aries); Moon square Jupiter;  Sun square Mars; Uranus square Venus.


[PAGE 645]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

   This is the horoscope of our friend, James Casey,  who wrote such helpful
articles in the "RAYS."  He passed into the invisible worlds in June,  1918,
and  as he has no relatives connected with our society who might  read  this
diagnosis  and feel badly on that account, he gave us permission to  use  if
for the benefit of his fellows.  He was born on April 24,  1884,  2:00 P.M.,
in Harlem, Iowa, and became afflicted with tuberculosis while living in Den-
ver, Colo., the Mecca for all who are afflicted with this disease.

   You will notice that Saturn,  the planet of crystallization and  obstruc-
tion, is placed in Gemini, the sign which rules the lungs, and although Sat-
urn  is  the  highest  elevated  planet  in  the  horoscope,  besides  being
unafflicted  there is always a weak spot in the anatomy where he  is  found.
The hot,  inflammatory and disruptive Mars is in Leo, the sign which governs
the heart,  square to the Sun,  which is ruler of Leo,  in the sign  Taurus,
which governs the throat and all the passages there.   This is a  configura-
tion which usually produces fevers,  inflammation,  wounds and  hemorrhages.
Thus  there was a tendency in the system toward tuberculosis,  and you  will
furthermore notice that there are four Common, flexible signs on the angles,
the  Sixth  House sign,  Virgo,  being on the Ascendant with  the  spasmodic
Uranus  afflicting  Venus,  the ruler of the venous  circulation,  which  is
placed  in Gemini,  the sign ruling the lungs.   Uranus gives a tendency  to
coughs  and spasms,  so you see that the condition is very well outlined  in
the horoscope.  The four  common  signs  show that when he became subject to


[PAGE 646]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

illness the Virgo nature was too weak to throw it off and he simply made  up
his mind that he was going to die from it,  hence there was no help.   If he
had  been able to throw off the feeling of impending death and  to  struggle
against  the  sickness there is no doubt that with this horoscope  he  could
have overcome.

   For  a more detailed analysis of the conditions which resulted in  death,
see pages 477-480.

                      NO. 27--ADENOIDS AND CONSTIPATION

   In this figure the planets occur in four groups:   Neptune is in conjunc-
tion with Mars,  Saturn in conjunction with Uranus,  Mercury in  conjunction
with the Sun, and Jupiter in conjunction with the Moon.  The last two groups
are also squaring each other.   Venus is alone and forms a trine to Jupiter.
Note also that the Sun is parallel to Neptune and Mercury, and Venus is par-
allel to Mars.


[PAGE 647]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES


ASC: 22 ARIES             SUN: 5:23 SAGITTARIUS       SATURN: 23:25 SCORPIO
MC: 11 CAPRICORN          MOON: 3:55 VIRGO            URANUS: 25:29 SCORPIO
11H: 2 AQUARIUS           MERCURY: 5:06 SAGITTARIUS   NEPTUNE: 19:17 GEMINI
12H: 2 PISCES             VENUS: 11:25 CAPRICORN
2H: 29 TAURUS             MARS: 24:53 GEMINI
3H: 21 GEMINI             JUPITER: 9:01 VIRGO







   This is the horoscope of a young woman born Nov. 27th,  1896,  2:15 P.M.,
Tacoma  Wash.   We note first that there are Cardinal signs on  the  angles,
showing  her  to be active in nature.  But she acts more from  impulse  than
from  reason.  This  characteristic  is  shown  by the fact that the Moon is


[PAGE 648]                                          THE MESSAGE OF THE STARS

square to Mercury and the Sun.   Naturally as both the Moon and Mercury  are
significators of mind,  any inharmonious aspects between them are  detrimen-
tal.   Add to this the further fact that Mercury is combust or burned up  by
its close proximity to the Sun, and it is very evident that we may expect to
do very little with the person by reason.  This does not mean that she is of
evil mental disposition;  she is quite the reverse, as shown by the conjunc-
tion of the Moon with the planet of benevolence, Jupiter,  and the trine be-
tween this last named planet and Venus, the planet of love and pleasure.

   The  trouble  for which this young woman has consulted  us  is  adenoids,
which cause extreme difficulty in breathing.   The condition is very clearly
shown in the horoscope.   When we remember that afflictions in one sign  al-
ways give a reflex action in the opposite,  we shall readily understand that
Saturn, the planet of obstruction, in conjunction with Uranus, the planet of
spasmodic  action  in  the sign Scorpio, is certain to  interfere  with  the
rhythmic  breath through the Taurus region comprising the throat  and  lower
part of the head.   Furthermore, Scorpio also governs the nose,  as you will
realize when you remember that the most prominent feature of the true  Scor-
pio person is a aquiline of generous dimensions.   Thus an afflicted  Saturn
located in Scorpio,  which causes an obstructed rectal region and  constipa-
tion,  also at the same time gives a tendency to throat trouble and obstruc-
tion of the nasal passages.


[PAGE 649]                                     THIRTY-SIX EXAMPLE HOROSCOPES

   In  the  case  of this patient we find the condition  aggravated  by  the
square of the Sun and Mercury to the Moon and Jupiter.   The Sun and Mercury
being  placed  in  Sagittarius are therefore active  in  the  opposite  sign
Gemini,  which governs the lungs,  and as the Moon governs the tidal air  in
the lungs the square of these planets will naturally affect the breathing.

   Now  for the remedy;  it seems far-fetched to attempt to rectify  an  ob-
struction in the throat by working on the anus.  Nevertheless,  Saturn,  the
planet of obstruction, conjoined with Uranus, the planet of spasmodic action
in  Scorpio,  shows that at certain times the sphincter muscles of the  anus
are so tightly closed that it is impossible for the diaphragm to move.   Un-
der  ordinary  conditions there is an in-breathing through  the  anys  which
regulates  the  air pressure in the bowels,  a fact that  is  not  generally
known, but when the sphincter muscles are congested by a configuration of so
severe  a  nature  as  this one, this automatic  regulation  stops  and  the
diaphragm is then unable to work with the necessary freedom;  therefore  the
lungs are deprived of the necessary tidal flow of air.  So,  to relieve this
condition  an adjustable mechanical dilator should be used.   It  should  be
noted that THERE ARE TWO SPHINCTER MUSCLES to operate upon,  the inside  one
being located just a little way inside the anus.

   After a few treatments of this kind the bowels should be kept open by the
use of the proper  laxative  foods  such  a  prunes, figs AND NOT FORGETTING


                             --- END OF FILE ---

