1.11 "Eve"

In Greenwich, CT, a girl stands at the end of her driveway in the cold. 
Two of her neighbors who are jogging past stop to ask why she is out in 
the cold by herself. She explains that her father told her he wanted 
some time alone. So, the neighbors go to talk to him. They find him 
sitting on the swingset in the backyard facing away from them. They 
reach out to speak with him and discover that he is clearly dead. He is 
totally pale and has two marks on his neck.
Scully shows Mulder the report of the death, explaining that 75% of his 
blood was drained from his body. Mulder, in turn, shows Scully some 
similar deaths in cattle where surgical needles were inserted in the 
jugular vein and the heart itself acts as a pump to remove the blood. 
Typically, Scully picks up the report which, as expected, was one 
concerning extraterrestial activities.
They both drive up to Connecticut to talk with the girl, Tina Simmons. 
The child's mother died earlier and so she is now orphaned and staying 
at a shelter house. When the talk to her, she tells Mulder that before 
her father's death, she saw red lightning, then blacked out. Mulder asks 
if she had ever seen the red lightning before and her reply is that she 
had seen them when "the men from the clouds" came after her father. When 
asked why the men would want her father, she says that they wanted to 
"exanguinate" him. 
The next day, Mulder and Scully discover that another body was found in 
Marin County, CA. The time and manner of death was exactly the same. The 
man was even found sitting in the swingset of the backyard. He also has 
a daughter.
Meanwhile, back at the shelter home, Tina awakes in the night and 
notices someone coming down the hall with a flashlight. She blocks the 
door with a chair and tries to search for an exit, but the door leading 
outside is bolted. When the attacker starts to pound at the door, she 
hides under the bed. As the person enters the room, Tina decides to come 
out and make a run for it, but she is grabbed. Finally one of the 
workers in the home arrives, but only finds the outside door open and 
Tina's stuffed animal on the floor. 
When Mulder and Scully arrive at the Reardon home in California, the 
first thing they notice is that daughter, Cindy, bears an uncanny 
resemblence to Tina. As they talk with Mrs. Reardon, Cindy changes the 
channel of the TV she is watching from Eek! the Cat to an address by 
President Clinton. They ask the widow if Cindy is really her daughter at 
which point she gets rather upset until Mulder shows her a picture of 
Mr. Simmons and his daughter. That is when Mrs. Reardon explains that 
she and her husband were unable to conceive so went to an insemination 
clinic. They thank her and leave.
Mulder tells Scully to check out the clinic while he is going to watch 
over the child since it is likely that someone will try to kidnap her as 
well. Scully manages to convince one of the doctors to show him their 
records and she finds that both the Reardons and the Simmons came to the 
clinic and were treated by a Dr. Sally Kendrick. The doctor immediately 
sighs and explains that Dr. Kendrick, a brilliant geneticist, was 
believed to have tampered with some of the clients. However, the 
government investigation of her activities was cancelled and she 
promptly disappeared. 
Back at the motel, where they are staying, Scully describes her findings 
and her hypothesis that Kendrick was behind the murders and the 
abduction, so that she can destroy the evidence of her tampering. They 
are interrupted by a mysterious call and when Scully answers, the caller 
hangs up. Mulder rushes Scully out of the room claiming he wants to 
sleep. He then sneaks out and meets with Deep Throat.
Deep Throat tells him of the Litchfield Experiment, a highly classified 
project to create a genetically engineered superrace. The males of the 
experiment were named "Adam" and the girls, "Eve." He then arranges for 
Mulder and Scully to visit a detention center where they can talk to 
"Eve 6." 
Scully immediately recognizes Eve 6 to be Dr. Kendrick, but it turns out 
that all of the Eve's were cloned in part from Kendrick so all looked 
exactly like her. Eve 6 is clearly demented, although extremely 
intelligent as she was engineered to be. She has been imprisoned for the 
past 2 years when she was caught. Most of the children of the Litchfield 
Experiment were suicidal, so few remained. Those that escaped were Eve's 
6, 7, and 8. Eve 6 then tells them that the reason the Eve's are all 
mentally unstable is due to the extra chromosomes in their DNA which 
give them their superhuman abilities. Apparently, after the Litchfield 
Project was terminated, Dr. Kendrick continued her work at the 
artificial insemination clinic. 
Mulder and Scully return to the Reardon's home to watch over Cindy. When 
Dana spots someone in her room, she and Mulder leap out to the rescue. 
Mulder heads behind the house and Scully enters and climbs the stairs, 
where she is promptly clubbed and knocked out. When Mulder holds the 
kidnapper at gunpoint and calls her Eve 7 or 8, she threatens to kill 
the child unless Mulder drops the gun, then she escapes in a car. 
Scully then asks the local police to put out an APB for Sally Kendrick 
and her accomplices who may look similar to her. 
Eve 7 brings Cindy back to her motel and introduces her to Tina. 
However, she is noticed by the hotel manager who notifies the 
authorities. 
The police find the car that Eve 7 used at the airport, but Mulder 
insists that the motel manager is right since the girl he saw, told him 
how to chlorinate his pool water.
Eve 7 explains their past to Cindy and Tina as she offers them some soda 
and drinks some herself. When Eve starts to convulse, the girls laugh at 
her and explain that it was simple for them to poison her in her drink 
using digitalis made from plants they grew themselves. Eve asks how they 
knew of one another before she introduced them and why they killed their 
fathers. They calmly shrug and said they just knew. Eve 7 grabs a knife 
with her remaining strength and tries to kill them. 
Mulder and Scully arrive at the motel which is surrounded by police. 
They hear the crash of a window and storm into the room. They find Eve 7 
dead on the floor and a broken window where it appears that someone has 
fled. Cindy and Tina lie on the floor consoling one another and gives 
Mulder and Scully a story about how Eve 8 fled out the window after they 
attempted to poison the girls.
Fox tells the authorities that they will take the girls home although 
feels uncertain that the girls would wish to be separated since they 
have apparently become very close. As they drive the children back, the 
girls ask them to stop for a bathroom break, which Scully agrees is a 
good idea since it is late and she needs some caffeine.
They pull into a truck stop and order some sodas. Then they all go into 
the restrooms, where one of the girls distracts Scully as the other 
picks up the sodas and puts some digitalis into them. When they all 
return, Mulder and Scully takes some sips from their drink as they head 
back to the car. Mulder realizes that he left the keys back in the stop 
so goes back for them. At the table, he finds the broken container which 
the girl used to keep the digitalis and he quickly figures it out. He 
comes rushing out the door and slyly knocks Scully's soda from her 
hands. After he explains to her, they find the girls have run off, but 
since they didn't drink enough of the sodas, they shouldn't become sick.
Mulder catches them, but they start to scream and a trucker pulls a gun 
on Mulder thinking that he is some sort of criminal even though Mulder 
tells him otherwise. Mulder releases them and the girls run off and he 
shows the trucker his badge and continues the chase. They re-enter the 
truck stop and the woman behind the counter tells them that a busload of 
school children just left. So, they leave and their car drives after the 
bus. The girls who actually hid in the back of a boat, emerge, only to 
be caught by Fox who never really left.
Mulder and Scully go to explain things to Mrs. Reardon who tears up a 
photo of her husband and child, throwing the half with Cindy into the 
fireplace.
Back at the detention center, Cindy and Tina are imprisoned behind doors 
marked Eve 9 and Eve 10. But a visitor comes for them, Cindy and Tina 
see her and say "Hello, Eve 8." When asked how they were certain it was 
her, they reply calmly, "We just knew."

-------------
Summary by Cliff Chen, 1993
