                                       
   ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
   บ       * UFOs *         " THE TRUTH OF THINGS "         * UFOs *       บ
   บ                          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^                          บ 
   บ  TALE OF TWO FORCES         - 94/02/15 -            THE GAME OF GOD   บ 
   ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ 
    
      This article only touches upon the basic philosophies of the author
                and should not be accepted as the absolute truth 
                           by either human or alien. 
                                 - - - - - - -

   BEFORE WE BEGIN....                                      
   This is a humble attempt to give the reader a closer understanding of the 
   UFO Forces that visit our planet.  This literature does not deal with so 
   called UFO phenomena.  Meaning; the amount of people that have seen UFOs 
   or the scores of people who have had missing time periods or the amount of 
   women who might have been inpregnated by these forces and/or how many new 
   cattle mutilation we have had this year or last year.  No details will be 
   discussed in this material or article. It only deals with the how and why 
   the UFO Forces come to our planet! 

   There also is a certain amount of repetition utilized, since the concepts 
   discussed are difficult to understand and it will help to give the reader 
   a quicker grasp of things, without leafing back to: where was it now that 
   I read about that kind of stuff!  
   
   I hope that I have expressed this difficult subject clearly enough so that 
   most readers get a greater understanding of how things really are in these 
   so called enlightening times we're living in.  I have tried to express the 
   "Truth of Things" with the patience of an old fashioned Angel and with the 
   determination of the most modern Saint I can think of.  Me!  Pun intended! 

   The following also contains some far sighted metaphysical philosophies for 
   they belong to the far reaching realities about UFOs. Please be patient if
   you are not interested in all of it, for some readers just might be! 
   
   By all means; please contact me with either positive or negative comments, 
   for there is nothing worse than sitting here in dead silence!  You're most   
   welcome to call me anything you like for no doubt I am all you think I am. 

                                                                 
                 Gerardus Everardus Tros   CompuServe 72704,731  
                           Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.            
                                                                 
                                                         Pleasant reading!

      !  -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-  !  -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=- !

                                   
   FOREWORD....                                                             
   Before we can explain what UFOs are, we first of all have to understand 
   what the basic medium of the universe really is. The entire universe is a 
   free and flowing vibration of energy that is infinite in its variety and 
   diversity.  Also, the universe is full!  There are no open spaces or areas 
   where "nothing" is happening!   All visible and invisible aspects of the 
   universe are our very own mind or consciousness, engaged in the processes 
   of creation!  It is also necessary to have some understanding of Time and 
   Space before the puzzling phenomena of UFOs can be understood.  We begin 
   therefore, with a discussion of Time/Space and Matter! 

                                                                        - 1 -

2

   ABOUT TIME AND SPACE - THE CENTER POLES OF PHYSICAL REALITY!             
   We experience time and space when we are awake.  And even then, depending 
   on our activity; time and space are quite flexible.  The duration of time 
   and the volume of space, depend on our attention or focus.   The more we 
   focus on either, the more pronounced they become!   This proves that time 
   and space are actually created by us and when we are unconscious or asleep 
   we stop creating them.  Time and space are the center-poles of our matter 
   reality or physical world.   They form the psycho-physical background of 
   our day to day existence.  The more attention we give them, the more they 
   acquire!  They are flexible components or conditions.  Time and Space are 
   created by our mind, our brain and our senses, working in a synchronizing
   energy field. The reality of time and space are generated by this special 
   energy field that we are involuntarily subjected to, as long as we live in 
   a physical body.  Time and space, in and by themselves, do not exist and 
   we become more and more aware of them when we focus upon them and thus co-
   create them.  Time and space are each other's opposite. Time is the result 
   of movement and space is the distance traveled during this movement.  Time 
   and space are also each other's mirror images.  There is no time without 
   space and no space without time.  Time and space are a continuum!   
        
   
   WE CREATE SPACE BY DEFAULT.                                              
   The universe around us is like an ocean full of vibrating energy in which 
   we swim.  Different energies in this ocean vibrate in different patterns 
   and frequencies and these differences create different kinds of matter or 
   substances.  Certain patterns and frequencies of vibration are noticed by 
   our sensory system and the substances that are experienced as material or 
   solid substances form our physical world and universe.  The majority of 
   the activities that take place in our environment however, are beyond our 
   grasp.  We experience only a small aspect of the total action!  The total 
   activity IS the universal mind or the entire ocean of vibrations!  Aspects 
   of this mind that are not noticed by us, leave openings and this gives us 
   the false or illusionary impression, that these openings are empty spaces. 
   We do not notice the energies that occupy these many openings because the 
   energies or objects that are there, are created by vibrating energies with 
   frequencies we cannot sense and therefore belong to another dimension.  We 
   as human beings are not made to experience these other energy densities of 
   the Universal Mind.  They belong to the astral and/or higher dimensions. 
   The energy-bodies of our deceased relatives could be standing right beside 
   us, but most people would never notice them, because we are not attuned to 
   the frequencies of the next dimension or density! 
   
   All realities, activities, objects or things are consciousness or mind in 
   vibration!   The aspects we see or experience of this ocean of vibrating 
   mind; we call our surroundings.  The things we do not sense or experience 
   are dismissed by us.  However, they are still aspects of our surroundings. 
   Our invisible surroundings!  We just do not notice these invisible energy 
   vibrations, but they occupy the openings or room we call space.  We look 
   right through these energies, and therefore; we create space by default! 
   

   SPACE IS FULL OF ENERGY VIBRATIONS.                                      
   In other words: space is not nothingness or empty!!  It is full of energy 
   vibrations that are not noticed or sensed by us.  When we live in a human 
   body, physical reality is the main vibration of the universal mind we are 
   able to experience. This vibration or reality includes time and space for 
   they are the most important aspects of the scenery or stage we perform on.  
   Physical reality is a minuscule aspect of the infinite spectrum of energy 
   vibrations we call the universal mind.  However, since we as human beings 
   
                                                                        - 2 -   
   
3
   
   have our existence in a physical reality at this moment in time, does not 
   mean that our reality is the only one.   Naturally, there are an infinite 
   amount of realities.  It's up to us to discover them!  The UFOs and their 
   inhabitants "emerge" from the invisible realities or cosmic energies that 
   are invisible to us, but are surrounding us at all times! 


   MATTER - THE BEAUTIFUL ILLUSION!                                          
   Matter as we think of it... does not exist!   What we call matter is an 
   energy vibration of a specific type and frequency within a certain band or 
   range of the spectrum.  This frequency band contains all known or physical 
   phenomena that take place in our physical universe.  Some scientists think 
   that 90% of our universe is missing. They probably come to this conclusion 
   because they are only using 10% of their mind.  Which is not all that bad, 
   for most people use only 5% of what is available. Maybe the reason why all 
   of us return to this earth again and again, is to claim the 90/95% that is 
   missing. The universe is 100% complete and not a thing is left out, except 
   full understanding!  Since mind or consciousness is all there is in the 
   universe, the seeming expansion of the physical universe, is the expansion 
   of our awareness or understanding of it. 
   
   
   THE UNIVERSE OR UNIVERSAL MIND IS ONE!                                   
   When we are able to experience all energy vibrations or dimensions of the 
   universal mind, we will soon discover that the visible and the invisible 
   universes have merged.  All universes are really one!   Since we as human 
   beings experience certain vibrations only, we therefore experience certain 
   aspects of the universe only!  The aspects we experience form the physical 
   reality or the Plane of Separation.  All things seem to be separated from 
   each other.  This experience however; is an illusion!   We have purposely 
   chosen to experience this illusion by living life as human beings! 
                                                                             
     Life as a human being therefore is a celebration!  We are the Essence   
     of the universe and we have succeeded in creating a "vehicle" for our   
     Mind/Soul to live in that allows us to experience specific aspects of
     our creation only!  It's an absolutely astounding achievement!!! 
   
   However, when Godbeings separate themselves from their own Wholeness, they 
   invariably get lost in their creation or dream!  This is what has happened 
   to mankind!   We are aspects of our own universal mind and at this moment 
   we dream that we are separate entities living in a body that is subjected 
   to time and space.  In order for us to return to our Source or Wholeness, 
   we must awaken and attain Cosmic Consciousness.  Also called;  The Christ 
   or Buddha Consciousness.   We are this Consciousness, but do not know it! 
   Eventually all human beings will attain the levels of awareness necessary 
   to promote themselves to the higher levels of consciousness or mind. Yes, 
   by all means remember that we're not here because we have sinned and have 
   been kicked out of Heaven. We are here to experience our physical reality! 
   
   
   TRAVELING FROM THOUGHT TO THOUGHT.                                       
   Since we are consciousness or mind and all things are different vibrations 
   of mind; we should be able to travel from vibration to vibration - or from 
   thought to thought.  This will prove to us that time and space are psycho- 
   physical conditions and are created by the vehicles we live in!  Traveling 
   from thought to thought has been mastered by the UFO Intelligences.  Their 
   crafts enable them to go any place in the universe they can think of. They 
   are the free Godbeings of the universe and the highest among them, do not 
   even need a vehicle or craft to go anywhere. Their thought will place them 
   wherever they are needed.  They do not really travel! 
                                                                        - 3 -

4

   ABOUT THE DIMENSIONS OR DENSITIES OF THE UNIVERSE.                       
   We live in a universe; that has at least seven 7 dimensions or densities. 
   Human beings at this moment are living in the third dimension or density 
   and transcendence to the fourth is just around the corner for some of us. 
   Most UFO Forces occupy the fifth and sixth density and the highest levels 
   or densities are occupied by the Great Consciousnesses who are in command 
   or control of specific areas of the universe or Universal Mind in Action. 
   The highest level of all is the very Source in Bliss enjoying the Infinite 
   Knowingness that All is Well and always will be! IT IS ALL AND ALWAYS WAS! 


   WHAT ARE UFOs?                                                          
   All during the ages of human existence the UFO phenomena have been a part 
   of our life.  They are even mentioned in the Bible where they are called 
   flaming chariots.  Some people might have heard the stories about Ezekiel 
   and his journeys.  Many of us haven't always been aware of their existence 
   however and what they really are, was so far beyond our understanding that 
   our wildest guess would still be miles off target.  Most likely UFO lights 
   or happenings were taken for lightning, acts of the Gods or for some other  
   simple minded explanations.  Nowadays however, a few people in the world 
   are coming very close to understanding who and what UFOs and their Beings 
   truly are. Some of them are the Keepers or Guardians of the world and they 
   have been instrumental in its creation, as well as they have been and are 
   the genetic engineers of the bodies we as mankind live in.  For ages we 
   have come to some planet to have our physical experiences as spiritual and 
   mental entities.  There are also other UFO Beings, who in their turn also 
   have influence over the population of the earth by trying to dominate them 
   and try to make the whole earth their dominion of slavery.  There are thus 
   basically two different kinds of forces that have direct influence on the 
   population of the earth at this time. More than two different kinds of UFO 
   forces however, visit or have been encountered on our planet. 


   THE MASSES ARE KEPT COMPLETELY IN THE DARK.
   Many governments have known for about 50 years what the UFO phenomena and 
   their forces are really all about.  These institutions however keep many, 
   many things hidden from the people.  So, the masses of man are completely 
   in the dark as to who or what these "things" are and what they are doing!  
   The most popular media suggest, that they are beings from other planetary 
   systems that visit here.  Space travelers!  How convenient!   Well, let's 
   be bold and tell the truth. The UFO phenomena are the activities of alien 
   beings or entities and this alien presence is two-fold!  There are beings 
   who engage themselves with serving mankind, and there are beings who keep 
   themselves busy with dominating and exploiting humanity. These two forces 
   are in competition for the attention of mankind.   Mankind is the target!  
   The Bible speaks about Armageddon and this is truly what it is all about.  

   
   THE REAL BATTLE IS ABOUT OUR SPIRIT OR BEHAVIOUR.                         
   However, the actual battle is not over our country, properties, bodies or 
   any other material value or possession. The battle is about the nature of 
   our Inner-Self and the values we practice.  Are we servants or lovers of 
   our brothers, or are we brain washed egos who could not care less about 
   others?  The very nature of our Soul, that is what the real battle is all 
   about!  The religions in their rantings and ravings have a different view 
   of things and therefore their understanding of what really is going on is 
   misleading.  They might indeed have some of the truth, but the real Truth 
   of Things, will put them out of business!  This is not to say that Love, 
   Sharing and Understanding will disappear.  On the contrary; those are the 
   very three things the new age of mankind will be based on! 
                                                                        - 4 -

5

   TO WHAT FORCE DO WE LISTEN?                                              
   When you're engaged in serving mankind there is no outside influence that 
   can stop you!   But if you're busy serving yourself, you fall victim to 
   the forces that try to enslave you to a level of interest, that is so far 
   below human capability, that it would scare any person who's still capable 
   of thinking!  The secrecy that is perpetrated by our governments, is the 
   very same type of delusion and/or enslavement our governments have fallen 
   victims to themselves!  In the present moment, the world is in the grip of 
   what could be considered a negative force. It is the result of a trade off 
   between the USA government and alien forces, that stresses technology over 
   honesty and/or peace.  Presumably certain deals have been made with these 
   alien forces and certain USA government departments have been deceived! It 
   is assumed that a considerable force of aliens are present at underground 
   locations all over the world. So what?  Do we have more right to the earth 
   than they have?   However, the whole world becomes upset, when they start 
   stealing the farmer's cows, but we have been stealing honey from the bees 
   for ages!   Who is to stop them from doing what we do? 


   MAN STILL IS A FIGHTER INSTEAD OF A LOVER.                               
   What to do now?  Apparently the late president JFK wanted to enlighten the 
   people of the United States and the world, but never got that far.  It is 
   assumed that the real government of the world stopped him in his tracks! 
   The entire world is suffering from the results.  The deals that were made 
   favor the almighty dollar and warlike policies over peace.  There is some 
   evidence that the same government departments were approached also, by the 
   forces that keep themselves busy serving others.  They promised that help 
   would be available if all nuclear weapons would be abandoned.   The same 
   weapons would be made inoperable by them in the first place, in case of a 
   nuclear war.  However they never said so, naturally!  There is no way that 
   they would let the school be destroyed, by a bunch of greedy bureaucrats 
   that happen to be in control of our little world. The things that happened 
   in the past, are almost beyond belief, but here we are; the UFO situation 
   still has to be dealt with and the people are getting very restless!  They 
   know that they have been lied to and they would like to hear the truth for 
   a change.  They are entitled to it, enough is enough! 

   
   ARE THESE TWO FORCES GOOD AND EVIL?                                     
   Well, the Force of Service to Others is the force that millions of years 
   ago, engineered the species that now is known as mankind.  Yes, you and I!   
   These Beings are not our Heavenly Gods, but they are to us; what a modern 
   genetic engineer is to the creatures he or she experiments on, or what the 
   zoo keepers are to the animals, or what a modern farmer is to his cattle! 
   In other words; they are our Guardians and/or Benefactors since the very 
   dawn of mankind and our endeavors upon this earth!   We ought to see them 
   as God's helpers if you like, or as Co-Creators!   We are all aware that 
   "God like decisions" are even made by human beings day in day out. In all 
   ways therefore; it is not that hard to understand that all of us are God! 

   And then, there are the Forces who are instrumental in creating divisions 
   among mankind by influencing us to become more and more interested in the 
   sciences as well as the domination of our brothers.  They are ego-powered 
   individuals with the intentions of complete domination via our systems of 
   governments and institutions.  These alien forces have been successful in 
   contacting the real governments of the world and the domination processes 
   are well on their way.  This is visible by the uniting and standardizing 
   efforts of the trades and banking systems of our world by the real forces 
   that govern.  A united world is a lot easier to dominate than hundreds of 

                                                                        - 5 -

6

   different systems and people.  The modern media of communication is the 
   very means of enchanting our great diversity, into one dull type of human 
   being, more robot than preliminary God!   Basically, one could call the 
   two Forces Good and Evil, however it should be remembered that all the 
   entities involved in any of the two groups, are but temporary or timely 
   manifestations of the one infinite Force or infinite Creator.  All this 
   Creator does is: play the Game of God!  Mankind and other species of the 
   universe, including the UFO Intelligences are but actors on the Universal 
   Stage of Creation.  In other words, it makes no difference on which side 
   of the ledger one is scripted or engaged, for all of us are really ONE!  
   In order to have a universe or a world at all, certain scenarios or games 
   have to be created by opposing polarities.  The Creator or God is both! 
   
   This does not mean however, that we have to create a reality of slavery 
   and other conditions far below our capabilities. We are able to create a 
   far better reality for ourselves, by means of diversified and plain old 
   fashioned individual ingenuity and individual freedom! The old fashioned 
   American Dream can still be brought to fruition, but not with a united 
   world of slaves indoctrinated by the nonsense they are being told today!  
   However not to worry, the real benefactors of man are forever watchful in 
   their crafts and all will be well in the end!  This does not mean however 
   that our present system of government will be maintained. No doubt in the 
   future we will be able to govern ourselves, without the influence of the 
   almighty buck!   It's high time for a true and more realistic democratic 
   government to take over the shambles of present day manipulation. 


   THE SUBLIMINAL OR SUBCONSCIOUS CONTROL.                                  
   So, specific UFO forces are man's benefactors and others are a group of 
   very smart entities, who are trying to dominate and exploit mankind via 
   "Secret Government Organizations and a Banking System" that the ordinary 
   masses have not the slightest notion of.  Most likely there is a movement 
   afoot to brainwash the entire population of the world into some kind of 
   robot like existence by means of the conditioning that's going on via TV 
   and other medias.  All this with the approval of our own elected and so 
   called democratic governments!   Naturally, the masses of this world are 
   totally ignorant of these procedures because they are busy consuming and 
   watching their TVs. TVs that could be laced with subliminal instructions 
   to consume and stay contently dumb amidst the pretensions of happiness!  
   Indeed, a great accomplishment; 3 billion robots and the rest just died 
   from aids related diseases, that was created and distributed by the same 
   forces that were the suppliers of dope to the unwanted!   Well now, it's 
   awful hard to believe, but so are UFOs and their phenomena! 


   ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
   ณ  Two big questions now are:                                            ณ   
   ณ  How long are our Benefactors staying in the back ground and/or, how   ณ
   ณ  can we who know, help our brothers from becoming slaves or a robots?  ณ
   ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู


   On the other hand, maybe the changes in the world in the future will unite 
   mankind and its governments and we'll sail into the next century on a bed 
   of roses in the moonlight as reborn lovers. That would really be nice, but 
   as many of us suspect, things are going to be a lot tougher than that!  




                                                                        - 6 -

7

   POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE POLARIZATION.                                       
   The UFO Intelligences like the people on Earth consist of two main groups: 
   "The Service to Others Group" and "The Service to Self Group". Both groups 
   are just as valuable, because it is the very friction or polarity between 
   these two groups that needs to be transcended by all Entities (of the two 
   groups) in order to grow in awareness and reach the ultimate level of Love 
   and/or Consciousness.  The religions call these two groups good and evil. 
   Positive and Negative Polarizations might be a better terminology.

   THE SERVICE TO OTHERS GROUP.                                             
   The Service to Others Group has been with us from the very beginning and 
   we should consider them as our Benefactors or parents. For millions if not 
   billions of years they have been there to help us and protect us from the 
   rest of the interested forces. It is well possible that the protective net 
   of electronic/magnetic/forces around the world has been split by our atomic 
   explosions in the past.  Atomic explosions do more than make a mess of the 
   physical reality we live in, it very well could affect other realities and 
   therefore expose us to negative forces of all kinds. Not one iota is known 
   about this by our sciences.  What our sciences know is close to nothing!  


   THE SERVICE TO SELF GROUP.                                               
   We need also remember that most of the UFO activities are from the Service 
   to Self Group.  They apparently are quite busy trying to "get" something 
   from mankind and our continuation-unit, the Soul.  It appears to them as a 
   most desirable characteristic!  They most likely are more electrical than 
   emotional or psychological.  Who knows, maybe all they have is their body?  
   To become immortal, like our Soul, must be quite alluring!  Another thing 
   that we should remember is, that what we call morality, could be missing 
   entirely in the Service to Self Group of Entities. Morale is a funny thing 
   anyway!  It depends how one has been raised or has become used to.  Maybe 
   morale and survival are the same thing for them.  For most of us on earth 
   there is a difference!  Well, it is at least hoped there is!

   The UFO Intelligences live or dwell in the higher dimensions or densities 
   and do not necessarily have a home planet.   Possibly they might live on 
   huge satellites. They have direct command/control over energy and they are 
   able to "emerge" into our dimension.  Naturally they create quite a stir 
   among the nut and bolt philosophies of our scientific world and its many 
   followers.  There might well be as many as fifty to sixty different kinds 
   or groups of higher entities who visit planet earth.  Most likely they all 
   use different means and/or vehicles to do so.  

   Some groups of higher beings strive to have influence over the population 
   of our world and the result seems to appear as if there is a battle going 
   on over the inhabitants of the earth. The real battle however takes place 
   within each individual; who in its struggles to find the Truth of Things* 
   sometimes unknowingly aligns with the one Group and then with the other.
    
    ษอ * อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
    บ                                                                     บ
    บ       Eventually the Truth of Things will show that all Realities   บ
    บ   are Virtual Realities and that the One and Only Reality that is   บ
    บ   Real is the Reality of Absolute Consciousness or the Reality of   บ
    บ   the Universal Mind.   Which All of Us Are!   Creation therefore   บ
    บ   is the result of the Actions of all Individual Aspects, of this   บ
    บ   Universal Mind, according to their individual/group desires and   บ
    บ   their particular Creative Abilities.  So be it!                   บ
    บ                                                                     บ
    ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
                                                                        - 7 -

8
   
   WE ARE THE INITIATING FORCE.                                            
   Our world and its creation is the manifestation of our thoughts since the 
   very beginning of this solar system and every human-spiritual-being is an 
   active aspect of the Creative Force and is co-responsible for the earth 
   and its ecological state. In the mean time all of us, as aspects or Souls 
   of this universal force, take turns to incarnate into the earth plane and 
   try to make sense of what seems to be going on around us.  Very, very few 
   people really know or even suspect that we are the "Initiating Force" or 
   Creator of our system.   Mankind is in the beginning stages of awakening, 
   which means that most people are still fast asleep and they are not aware 
   of what this world is really all about or who is in control. For many God 
   the Father is still their favorite hero and his only Son is the only one 
   who can be relied upon.  The truth about the UFOs will play greater havoc 
   with the religions than the fact that the sun does not turn around the 
   earth anymore.   What to do is indeed a problem, for the suppressed press 
   and the books in the book stores are not read by the masses. It's one way 
   of telling the "Truth of Things" to people one at the time. However, very 
   few read books, for they have been trained to watch TV!   One never knows 
   though, maybe the TV shows Unsolved Mysteries or Sixty Minutes will tell 
   all one of these days!  


   A FOUR DIMENSIONAL WORLD.                                                
   The world is a school and it is still good for another three/four billion 
   years in order to raise the level of awareness of a myriad of individual 
   entities.  In the mean time; a transcendence of certain frequency levels 
   will promote our earth to make it suitable for a different kind of being 
   to live on.  It will become Fourth Dimensional!   Which means that there 
   will be an END OF TIME!   For Time and Space will be transcended by these 
   entities. Maybe only a few million people will be promoted to this higher 
   grade.  Who knows... and who cares?!   It's not up to us to either judge 
   or promote anybody.  The required standards most likely are measured by 
   the evolvement/awareness/love levels combined over thousands of lifetimes.  
   The people who don't make the higher grade, no doubt will incarnate upon 
   the earth again or some other planet for there are plenty of them around.  
   We're all in good hands!  Our own! 


   IS ALL THIS REALLY TRUE?                                                 
   How do some people know all this?   And what proof do they have?   To the 
   first question they answer: How come YOU do not know this??!!  And to the 
   second: The proof IS in the pudding!!   Just wait and see!! 
   
   Some of us are more mystical than others, however this does not imply that 
   mystical people are better or more than others.  We're all the same Force 
   or Entity for that matter.  In order to pass the infinite amount of time 
   and space that is available to THE FORCE WE ARE, we engage ourselves in 
   the enjoyment and/or endurement of the unlimited diversities of creation 
   and its dimensional possibilities and differences.  We do this, until all 
   of us return Home again and take another Eternal Breath! 

   It's quite the game for it has a built in Win-Win outcome! In the ultimate 
   beginning or end we start or finish as the same Illustrious Creative Force 
   and in between, we chose our own individual forms and our individual kind 
   or functions to make it a real game of Hide and Seek. Bravely, my function 
   includes writing!  Why is this so?  Because I as the Force determine that! 




                                                                        - 8 -

9

   THE ANIMALS IN THE WORLD OF ZOOS.                                        
   Certain UFO Intelligences look after man and his world, like we look after 
   a zoo full of expensive animals.  As you know; we do this with dedication, 
   love, understanding and gratitude. We learn from looking after the animals 
   and the higher beings learn from looking after us. There is an Eternal Law 
   in the universe that the higher planes look after the lower! 

   There also is a force, as in any zoo, that destroys the scenery, tries to 
   upsets the animals by throwing rocks, and in general has a good time doing 
   what they like best. We all have different inclinations and we all live in 
   a free universe with an unlimited amount of free worlds.  


   UFOs AND THEIR REPERCUSSIONS.                                          
   Many people have had experiences with UFOs and their Intelligences.  Most 
   often they come to the conclusion that there is a "missing time lapse" in 
   what they have been doing.  They also have strong feelings that something 
   very unusual has happened to them.  If they do remember what happened, 
   they have great trouble convincing others!   By no means is it a pleasure 
   to be picked up and examined.  It is a very traumatic and Soul searching 
   experience indeed!   Especially if you have to go through it two or three 
   times because you are curious enough to utilize your Soul memory via 
   hypnosis in order to remember!   The greater percentage of UFO encounters 
   are between the negative polarized Entities and contactees, for in some 
   kind of fashion, the positive polarized Entities use the others to do some 
   of their bidding. At least that is the way all sophisticated forces in the 
   world work and no doubt the same technic is used in the higher planes.  


   WHAT HAPPENS WHEN WE ENCOUNTER AN UFO?                                  
   First of all we must remember that all things in the universe are energy 
   vibrations.  All these energy vibrations have different frequencies and 
   all vibrations have different patterns or complexes.  Also we should try 
   to understand that these energy vibrations take up no actual space, and 
   therefore many different patterns of vibrations can take place within the 
   same locale or environment.  Space thus, is not something that is empty.  
   Space is full of vibrating energy!   Most of these vibrations are beyond 
   our range of detection. The activity or vibration we are aware of, in what 
   we call space, is the activity that forms the physical universe as we know 
   it.  The entire physical universe could well be less than 1% of the total, 
   although size or volume is not a measurable property of the universe. 

   Whenever UFOs and their operators enter our energy fields or our physical 
   reality system, they emerge from the invisible into the visible regions of 
   our mind.  They do this, by lowering their vibrational frequencies.  They 
   were present at all times, but now they have become visible.  Normally we 
   look right through them!   That is why, in many cases, these vehicles seem 
   to appear from nowhere.  These beings have control over their energy and 
   can appear to us, as almost anything; including merging balls of light, 
   beautiful spaceships and possibly even as lovely virgins.  In an instant 
   they change their form and appear as physical beings.  It is certain, that 
   all UFO beings have x-ray vision and see through brick walls or bathroom 
   doors.  They know our whereabouts at all times.  They could even touch our 
   valuables in a steel safe, for they are not bothered by walls of steel or 
   concrete.  They see right through physical matter, for as you know, what 
   is really there; is but a fine mist of vibrating energies, that we see or 
   experience as solid matter!  We are only equipped with surface vision and 
   a brick wall or a steel safe are mighty solid to us. 


                                                                        - 9 -
   
10
      
   OUR MIND CONTAINS ALL THINGS.                                             
   UFOs and their operators actually move from thought to thought since all 
   things in the entire universe are only manifested thought forms or mind.   
   The visible and invisible universes really ARE our mind or consciousness!   
   We share this mind or consciousness with all creatures and things in the 
   universe.  All creatures and things are Cosmic Energy Vibrations and parts 
   of these vibrations make up our day to day environment.  We live in worlds 
   within worlds and none of these worlds are of a physical nature.  Our own 
   beloved senses are the greatest liars we can think of!  All this naturally 
   is done to completely fool us.  And as we know; it works perfectly! 


   WHY DO UFOs VISIT EARTH?                                                 
   The human population in its entirety is the result of a gigantic cosmic 
   experiment. We are the very offspring of this experiment and we have been 
   evolving from the very beginning of time. Our Guardians or older brothers 
   are responsible for our welfare!  As soon as we become self-aware however, 
   we become responsible for our own progress.  Often this is a very critical 
   stage!  In this stage a few of us have reached self responsibility, while 
   others still like to be told what to do.  These people will be dominated 
   by those who like to show off their political or religious belief systems.  
   In the future however, the world of mankind will slowly enter a phase of 
   government without exploitation and a state of mind in which religions are 
   redundant.  This will be a phase of love, trust and cooperation. The times 
   of aggression, competition and phony belief systems have almost passed.  
   
   At all times, the UFO visits of our Guardians are required to supervise 
   the race of man and do the necessary experiments.  In the near future a 
   more direct contact with our Guardians will take place. The old stages of 
   isolation are over!   Meanwhile, many different kinds of UFOs visit our 
   planet and it is possible that many space brothers know a lot more about 
   us than we know about ourselves. So, just because you have seen a UFO, is 
   no guarantee that you have seen a unit belonging to our Guardians. It is 
   possibly only a visitor or a species of beings experimenting with future 
   bodies they are trying to create either for themselves or others!  There 
   is an eternal process going on, to create new or better vehicles. The very 
   same methods were used to create the vehicles we as human beings live in 
   at this time.  
   

   THE UNIVERSE IS OUR RELATIONSHIP.                                       
   The relationship between our Guardians and ourselves, is similar to the 
   relationship between ourselves and the animal world.  We all are "The 
   Universal Creator in Manifestation" and neither of us is any greater or 
   better than any other.   All of us are the Creator in different form!   
   Naturally, this also means; that an ordinary virus, however nasty, is as 
   much the universal Creator as the most powerful spiritual entity in all 
   its glory!  However, there is such a thing as "Value to the Whole" and by 
   this is meant that a finger is less important than the head. Both of them 
   however, serve the infinite Creator in their own perspective values, for 
   there are many things a finger can do, a head cannot.  An ant is not less 
   than an elephant and an ordinary bloke is not less than a Son of God, or 
   someone who has attained the Buddha Consciousness.  Our universe is the 
   relationship of equals that contains and embraces an infinite variety of 
   differences, for unlimited diversity is its goal. 

   In no way therefore, should we as humans be ashamed of our relatively low 
   level of awareness compared to our older brothers or any other entity. We 
   are all equal "mind-energy-aspects" of each other.  All beings or entities 
   
                                                                       - 10 -

11
   
   in the universe are children of the infinite source or the one infinite 
   Creator, we also refer to as the Universal Consciousness or Mind.  This 
   very Essence is the Infinite Medium in which all things, creatures, beings 
   or entities relate, and are forms or vibrations of consciousness or mind. 
   All things ARE this very Essence!  There is nothing else in the universe!  
   

   WE ALL PLAY THE GAME OF GOD.                                            
   There are many different kinds of UFOs and anybody who is anybody in the 
   UFO business, naturally visits their neighbors or distant relatives. After 
   all, it only takes a second to think of them and you're there!  UFO visits 
   are common phenomena in our world and all visitors are aspects of a cosmic 
   relationship.  We all learn from these visits, and this includes the UFO 
   beings. Many of them do not have the faintest idea what it is like to be 
   human, or what it is like, to be taken aboard.  The people who are taken 
   aboard naturally are examined and they possibly might be experimented on, 
   in order to assure that the proper vehicles are available for the human 
   soul in the future stages of human evolution.  We all are the Creator and 
   we all play the Game of God... because We Are God!   The universe and all 
   that is in it is an infinite ocean of free universal energy in continuous 
   vibration.  This vibrating universal energy permeates all that exists and 
   is all that exists.  This vibrating universal energy is our consciousness 
   or mind and this includes the UFO Intelligences. If they were not aspects 
   (or parts) of our own consciousness, we would never be able to experience 
   them and/or get to know them, for they would be "outside" of us! 


   OUR WORLD IS AN AWESOMELY COMPLEX ORGANIZATION.                          
   To look after a world like ours with close to seven billion people takes 
   an enormous amount of Guardians with all kind of expertise. Each and every 
   one of us might have from four to seven guides or helpers. This adds up to 
   about thirty-five billion entities, just for this world alone.  Then again 
   multiply this by 10.000 for this galaxy and then again with another factor 
   of let's say a billion for the entire universe. The figures are staggering 
   indeed!   Then there are the billions and billions of insects, animals and 
   other creatures.  Plus the zillions of creatures in the astral and other 
   dimensions.  The one infinite Creator is a hell of a lot of entities!! 


   WE MUST LEARN TO ENJOY OUR CREATION.                                    
   Another thing to consider is that the energy resources of our world, like 
   oil and gas or any other resource or mineral all have been put there by a 
   very carefully planned activity we call the Processes of Creation. We have 
   been here from the very beginning and even then there were UFOs.  We might 
   even have been the occupants!  For Time and Space are the most illusionary 
   conditions we could think of. They are aspects of the dream we're dreaming 
   and all the fixtures or figments in our dream are only relatively real. So 
   whatever reality we live in, they are but realities we create. It would be 
   wise to learn to enjoy them. If we cannot, the entire creation is useless!  
   
   Life is the greatest and most important Celebration we will ever be a part 
   or an aspect of.  There isn't one thing around that is superior!   Life in 
   all its diversity and variety is the opportunity to appreciate Life.  This 
   is the most important lesson for all of us to learn and to remember.  The 
   purpose of life is to have fun, in whatever we are doing.  The Creator in 
   all its Glory, living within all of us, does not require anything of us. 
   The Creative Force is a neutral, but uplifting force, and its satisfaction 
   is guaranteed, when we are satisfied and fulfilled.  However small and/or 
   childish our desires or wishes might seem to be!  
   
                                                                       - 11 -   

12

   The one and only infinite Creator is present in each and every particle of 
   its own manifestation, without appearing on the scene but once, in its own 
   full or infinite Entirety so to speak.  To say, that each and every one of 
   us is this Creator might sound absurd indeed.   However, there is no other 
   way to utter or express it.  There is nothing else in the entire universe!   
   
                              ! ALL OF US ARE IT !                             
                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


      ! -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-  !  -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=- !





   There are other files about UFOs in the CompuServe Forums and some of them 
   are listed below.  Thank you for being inquisitive and open to... What Is. 
   
                             - - - - - - - - - - -

     Go ISSUESFORUM    GULF.TXT    Shot down of a UFO.                        
        Library 10     UFOCRA.TXT  List of UFO crashes.                       
                       JMACK.ABD   Sixty abduction cases.                     
                       FIRSTE.TXT  Encounter with alien beings.               
                       GBUFOS.392  Multiple witnesses of UFO flights.         
                                                                              
     Go NEWAGE         AAVFAQ.ZIP  Frequently asked Questions about UFOs.       
        Library 15     LEAR.ZIP    Account of government's UFO involvements.  
                       MUFON.ZIP   Mutual Network UFO files.                  
                       SKEP.TXT    UFO views from the Skeptical Inquirer.     
                       ALIEN.TXT   Various types of UFO Beings.               
                       IMPLNT.GIF  Gif file of implant in abductee.           
                                                                              
     Go SPACEFORUM     NASATP.TXT  Discussing a NASA Video Tape.              
        Library 7      10BEST.UFO  10 best known UFO crashes.                 
                       MJ-12.TXT   Bill Cooper's Top Secret MJ-12 file.       

   
    !  -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-   !   -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-  !
   
   
                 Gerardus Everardus Tros  CompuServe 72704,731
                             Yes, I'm always home! 


                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                                       |
                        -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --                     
                    

                                                                       - 12 -

13

          ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
          บ      We have included the following listing of the      บ
          บ                  - Works of Gerardus -                  บ
          บ             just in case you are interested             บ
          บ     in what else is available from the same author.     บ
          ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ


  DO YOU HAVE QUESTIONS LIKE THESE...???
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
  Who or what is this force people call God?
  Are we created by this force or are we responsible ourselves?
  If the force of the universe is Love why are so many people suffering?
  What is the purpose of religions and is the bible the answer to our needs?

  Why are some people wiser than others?
  Do we indeed live before birth and after death?
  Are all human beings hypnotized and don't know it?
  Is physical reality an artificial environment and if so... why is this so?

  What is real?... and what isn't?
  Is the nature of ordinary life like a dream?
  What is time really... and what is space... and who creates them?
  Why are so many innocent people suffering because of religious wars?

  What are UFO's all about?  
  What is Cosmic Consciousness!
  Is reincarnation a belief or a reality?
  Why are some people so mature and others behave like children?

  What is the purpose of life?
  What is wrong with the world nowadays?
  How long is it going to take before things improve?
  Are we slowly moving into the Fourth Dimension of our Creative Endeavor?
   
      ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
      ณ     The above questions and many others are answered in the     ณ
      ณ                       "Works of Gerardus"                       ณ
      ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู



  WISDOM PUBLICATIONS...
  is the sole publisher of the Works of Gerardus and his work is distributed
  by means of: Books, Electronic Books and Computer Programs.

  Gerardus has been writing "Metaphysical Compositions" for the last 16 years 
  and from the very beginning it was clear that his work was remarkable.  The
  clarity with which Gerardus expresses the Eternal Truths is most refreshing 
  and the Wisdom of the Wise is now available to all of us!  The following is 
  available:

  PAPERBACK BOOKS.
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
    - BE STILL. A discussion between a Person and his Soul        [ ] $  6.75
 
    - GOSSIP OF GOD. 100 pages of superb metaphysical poems.      [ ] $  6.75



                                     - 13 -

14

  ELECTRONIC BOOKS.
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
           An Electronic Book is written material recorded on 
           computer disks.  It can be reproduced on screen by 
           a word processor and printed into book form.

    - CREATION... THE PERFECT MIRROR.
           Book on Disk.  A master piece of modern metaphysical   [ ] $  7.95
           philosophy from beginning to end.  Most suitable for 
           the beginner, yet enticing for the advanced.  A true 
           visionary work with romantic interludes!   This book
           contains the ideal mix of Light, Love, and Laughter!

    - GERARDUS DREAMS.
           Book on Disk. Very profound metaphysical discussions!  [ ] $  7.95
           Moses/Gideon/Judas/Lazarus and many others drop in.

    - LIFE AND YOU!
           Course or Curriculum in Metaphysics.   Very powerful!  [ ] $  9.95 
           Each chapter gradually increases in depth to help the
           reader to advance in understanding and love!   Useful  
           for the beginner and alluring for the advanced.


    - YOU ARE GOD!
           The proof of it all! Mind baffling discussions of the  [ ] $  6.95
           first order. Written in a simple language to ease you  
           into the field of metaphysics.   Superb conversations
           between two people on an airport.  Worth a Million!

    - MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES & ESSAYS. 
           Questions and Answers, The Realization of Self essay,  [ ] $  7.95
           Man... the Infinite Creator essay,  Several articles,
           and the Changes for Mankind from the Third Dimension
           to the Fourth Dimension in the near Future. Awesome!
                                             

  COMPUTER PROGRAMS.
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
           Computer Programs with a data base information bank to 
           enable search and find words or phrases. Included also
           are: browser, filters, context sensitive help, twelve
           output formats, disk write, screen characteristics and
           various tools and options to customize printing. (They
           form Electronic Books with a built in librarian). 

    - WISDOM OF THE PRESENT.
           Computer Program/Electronic Book with 21 subjects and  [ ] $ 19.95
           more than 300 metaphysical essay entries with a depth
           that reaches beyond the mind straight into the heart.
           Contents includes; affirmations, poems, questions and
           answers to enlighten the enquiring minds of millions.
           Very profound, yet very simple.   Highly recommended!







                                     - 14 -

15

   COMPUTERS PROGRAM (Continued)
   
   
    - TRUTH WITHOUT PROOF.

           Computer Program/Electronic Book with 21 subjects and  [ ] $ 24.95 
           more than 365 metaphysical essays with profound, bold
           and enlightening qualities to pause your thoughts. It
           will open your mind to inhale the Eternal Truth as if
           it was a breath of fresh air. This program was in the 
           making for more than seven years and answers the most
           important questions you could possibly ever ask about
           yourself and Mankind at this particular time. Wow...!

                         -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-


  SPECIAL OFFERS.
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
    Special A  - WISDOM OF THE PRESENT  &  TRUTH WITHOUT PROOF.   [ ] $ 29.95
    ~~~~~~~~~

    Special B  - All Paper, Electronic Books and Comp. Programs.  [ ] $ 69.95
    ~~~~~~~~~            ($39.95 for Students and Retired)

    Special F  - Everything Listed Above.      Enormous Bargain!  [ ] $ 89.95
    ~~~~~~~~~            ($49.95 for Students and Retired)

    Special G  - 10.000 hrs of work on one 3.5" disk. Compressed! [ ] $ 39.95
    ~~~~~~~~~             (Disk-7   $39.95 for Everybody)
   
    Payments in American Funds Please.    Total Amount Enclosed.    $ ____.__
                        - Shipping and Handling is Free -
   
      ษออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
      บ  ! Disk-7 is an absolute super bargain for 10.000 hrs of work !  บ
      ศออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
   
     Please print your name and address and circle the disk size you prefer.

  Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | 
  Address. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  3.5" 1.44MB 
  City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  
  Country/State. . . . . . . . . . Zip Code. . . . . . . . . . |  5.25"  360K  


                       ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                       บ                                 บ
                       บ     ! WISDOM PUBLICATIONS !     บ
                       บ         P.O. BOX 66053          บ
                       บ     HERITAGE P.O.  EDMONTON     บ
                       บ     ALBERTA CANADA  T6J 6T4     บ
                       บ                                 บ
                       ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ


           -=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-=+=-



                                     - 15 -

