From: Michael Johnson <mjohnson@portal.ca>
Newsgroups: alt.alien.research
Subject: Anti-gravity vehicle
Date: Sun, 24 Mar 1996 04:37:38 -0800
Organization: Internet Portal Services
Lines: 61
Message-ID: <31554212.4A64@portal.ca>
NNTP-Posting-Host: d141.portal.ca
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Mailer: Mozilla 2.01 (Win95; I)

I know that anyone (if not everyone) reading this may have serious 
doubts but come hell or high water, I will build a craft that will 
revolutionize the way man looks at propulsion. I have designs that can 
only be described as revolutionary but not mystical. Trouble is, to 
build my craft is going to take money. I have some simple test models to 
build to prove my designs but I require some rather unique (as well as 
everyday) items. Some are quite simple and they combine to build certain 
components that have never been built by anyone willing to admit it. Or 
perhaps someone has come close but never applied it in just the correct 
fashion. I have a very high rating in the ability known as "3D problem 
solving". I believe it is being of the top 1% in this categorie that 
gives me the unique ability to solve man's question; How do we travel at 
the speeds we believe UFO's are capable of? 
or; Why don't visiting aliens just stop and say "hello, we're here, 
we're real"? 

That may be as simple as Star Trek's "Prime Directive", perhaps they're 
of the belief that if we don't know how to keep up with them, then we're 
inferior and shouldn't be influenced unfairly. It may be that they can't 
understand why we can't grasp a simple concept such as controlling 
gravity. The fact is, our whole universe is just full of examples and 
answers about the mysteries of gravity. Why man hasn't built such a 
craft may be in the way he sees power/transfers as being applied in 
machinery. I see the way that man has built everything as being rather 2 
dimensional when it comes to motors, gyros, and just about everything 
that has anything to do with locomotion. My designs truly take the motor 
into a new era by being more 3 dimensionally designed. It is my firm 
belief that when we build the craft that can do 100,000 miles plus per 
hour then we will be able to have open communication with other worlds.
Imagine not needing ridiculous amounts of fuel just to get into orbit. 
Now imagine a vehicle (shaped much like a disk) that can go into orbit 
on only a 100 gallons of gas. Such a vehicle would make the space 
shuttle obsolete, which would make building our "Enterprise" a lot more 
feasible. It would mean that for all the fuel we waste on just one space 
shuttle mission, we would be able to colonize the moon.

Now here's where you can help.

I want to build our new form of transportation and all I want is for my 
name to be up there with Einstein, Newton and all the other great minds 
of our history. The only thing is, due to my limited income (disability 
pension) I am unable to put any money into this project. I have spent 25 
years of my life working on my designs and I think that's more than 
anyone else has contributed to such a worthwhile effort. So who do I 
go to? I'm not versed in patents and whatever else I should be 
considering for protecting my ideas. I don't need protection but 
perhaps proper business management and marketing skills. I want this 
to be of benefit for all of mankind. It wouldn't hurt of course if 
me and my investors made a tidy profit on something that could save 
our planet and promote our space exploration programs. I really 
don't think most of us would really want to spend as much time as we 
think we would in space as that really looks like a very lonely 
place but once somebody mapped the galaxies, space route maps might 
make the journey more enjoyable. After all, who wants to just see 
how much nothing is out there? 

So if you can tell me how I should go about this project, or know of 
who would be interested in helping me build this craft, please email 
me. You could be instrumental in changing man's history.

mjohnson@portal.ca
