                           
                           THIS FILE WAS DOWNLOADED FROM               
                     MAINBASE BBS (040 - 965819) Malm”, Sweden 
                              A superb TEXTFILES BBS            
                    
The following was taken from UFO Magazine Vol 2 No 4 - 1987
--------

        What do ET abductors want?  It's been suggested that to
insure species survival, they're inbreeding genes of emotional,
self-willed, individuated Earth humans into their own excessively
mental, regimented race-but perhaps that's projection.  What are
we learning?  Self-reflectiveness, perhaps-a keener idea of just
who we are?  Alicia Montell's testimony implies just such an
outcome.

    "Was I ever abducted? I mused over this question as I put
down a book I'd been reading, describing a person who through
hypnosis discovered having had an encounter with aliens at an
earlier time in his life."

    "I've never doubted that extraterrestrials exist.  I have
always accepted as fact that we are only a small but
not-so-forgotten planet out here on the fringes of the Milky Way,
and are visited quite often by a variety of travelers.  How could
anyone possibly ; think that we are the ONLY living, evolving,
experiencing creatures?"

    "My husband Bernt and I have read with great interest all the
stories we could lay our hands on, but at times had to smile-we
clearly saw that people's fear often created a lot of problems
for them.  If instead they had been able to keep cool and
cooperate with the aliens, their stories would have been quite
different.  They could have had encounters filled with awe and
understanding of those beings who impinged so forcefully upon
their lives."

    "Our seeming inability to identify with the fear in abductees
was somewhat altered by an explanation from our discarnate
friend, 'Arthur."  he told us, 'Your race deeply believes anyone
entering from outside this planet cannot possibly look like us;
they MUST look different, they MUST be feared.  You cannot see
these beings for what they really are.  When confronted, a shield
automatically blinds your vision and distorts anything or anybody
that does not belong on the planet... they most likely are very
much like yourself'

    'Arthur' went on to describe my inner travels and how I had
met many strange races outside Earth planet's confines. 'Remember
what happened when she met reaces similar to her own?  She got
very upset, could not at first visualize their features, because
it was difficult to accept that others existing out there could
possibly look like her own race back on earth.  Even in that free
a mental state, the race concept remained...'

    "Now I begin to wonder if I might find fear taking over
simply because the body reacts naturally, should I someday stand
in front of an alien.  Anyway, I think I am ready to put it to
the test!"

                        *  *  *

    "After reading the story about abduction, I began to think
seriously about examining my own childhood, to investigate a
little 'blank spot' I run across when I've reviewed my childhood
in order to better understand the roots of my beliefs.  How can I
describe it?  I sense a small spot in time that I purposely
forget when I try to visualize a childhood scene.  Sometimes I
thought it could be a molestation, completely buried yet
affecting my personal attitudes.  But never, never until this
moment did I associate it with extraterrestrials."

    "I underwent hypnosis.  The usual commands were given to
place me in a deep trance, Bernt suggesting I move to a time in
my childhood where something out of the ordinary had happened, to
become that child and perceive all clearly, to answer any and all
questions..."

    "I find myself going back.  the picture I get is weaving in
and out... I feel small, perhaps five years old.  I am playing in
the dirt next to the driveway...I can feel the heat on my back
and the soft, powdery dirt in my hands...something makes me look
up."

    "I see two small men standing right in front of me.  They are
about a head taller than I, very slim with stick-like arms and
legs with large, dark eyes and dressed in a mottled green
garment.  Fear begins to rise, but in that very moment everything
becomes completely silent and I can no longer feel the heat."

    "The birds aren't singing and my fear is gone.  I am in a
trance-like state.  They must have hypnotized me so I wouldn't
scream and run away.  They each take a hand and lead me along the
driveway.  I walk in a daze.  As we near the end of the drive,
the whole area seems filled with a huge, bulky, silver-gray ship.
Its rim is far above my head.  They lead me up a 'moving walk'
and we enter a large, round area-sort of an entry hall with doors
all around and a dome-shaped ceiling.  We go through a door and
down a short tunnel, enter a room with a row of chairs along one
wall.  The opposite wall is full of blinking lights and small
glowing glass frames."

    "The two small men turn me toward a little old man sitting in
a very elaborate chair.  His eyes are not too different from my
own.  Perhaps the two who brought me in were wearing sunglasses?
That would explain the large, dark and slanted eyes that caught
my attention at first."

    "The old man takes my hands in his, and as he does, I can
hear again.  he is pale and full of wrinkles, and has a white
beard neatly-trimmed to a thin edge from ear to ear.  He looks
like a leprechaun!  The ears stand out a bit from his head and
are slightly pointed.  He say something I don't understand and
as he does a bunch of small 'cubes' start to tumble into my mind,
where they get neatly stacked up...they don't hurt me, but as
they enter my mind I become terrified.  Instantly a curtain is
lowered.  I am again blank and standing in a soundless state."

    "Our discarnate friend Arthur clarified things later.  He
said the cubes are related to the mind only, that thee are ways
of depositing ideas into the mind. 'Perhaps she can touch them
mentally ; and get a slight understanding of what they contain,'
he said, 'The ideas contained in the cubes are so overwhelming
that there is no way she can encompass the whole message.  But
she is getting the feeling of it and it is a little
frightening...Alicia is being prepared for a physical
confrontation.  It could be very traumatic unless conditioning
has taken place over a period of years.

    "Her early encounter took place physically at the time and
space she described, and even though her recall projects a
physical picture, the incident was equally a mental experience.
The cubes are implanted in order to condition and encourage a
specific person to strive in a specific direction, because a race
on its own is very grounded in the planet's vibration is
therefore not prepared to confront any alien intrusion.'

    You are almost suggesting that we are really never alone of
this planet of ours, 'I interjected. 'No, you are not.  You are
being watched, used, manipulated-but that is the nature of
things,' Arthur responded. 'There are always interactions, a need
and wish to assist others, to make transitions easier..the
seeds are planted to help you.  Without them, you would not
develop or dream.'

    "We are so used to translating things into purely physical
terms.  We grant acceptance to the physical props we have around
us, but is it all right to accept our visions and beliefs in
whatever form we clothe them?  And once we stop laughing at it or
calling it just imagination-UFO sightings and all the
rest-perhaps then we can accept.  Perhaps a lot of these things,
even more that we are currently willing to accept, are our sudden
shifts of awareness and vision."
