                           
                           THIS FILE WAS DOWNLOADED FROM               
                     MAINBASE BBS (040 - 965819) Malm”, Sweden 
                              A superb TEXTFILES BBS            
                    

FROM UFO Magazine Vol 2, No 4 1987

For over 20 years Allan Drake has been obediently listening to
alien messages coming to him telepathically.  Though at first
resistant and disbelieving, Drake has finally come to terms with
his experiences-and his unseen mentors-enough to recall the
contact hopefully ;and passionaltely express his dismay about
general ignorance of extraterrestrial phenomenon. He sounds a
clear warning that such ignorance must end.

--------

    "It is difficult for me to describe my feelings.  But I feel
that for me and others the contactee experience has opened up a
window on the many mysteries that have gone unanswered for many
centuries."

    "It started in 1959 when I was 14. With my family, I was
living in a township near East St. Louis, Illinoise.  We kids
used to play in an old, abandoned train depot near the house.

    "One evening while I was alone and looking down the tracks, I
noticed a glow coming from a distance.  At first I thought it was
a train, but it didn't move and I got curious.  I started walking
down the tracks toward the glow."

    "I got within 50 feet of what looked like a round, metallic
craft sitting right on the tracks.  Three beings stood around it.
They were about 4 feet tall with rather large heads and no hair.
Their eyes were larger than normal;the noses were very small.
They had small mouths.  As I approached the beings seemed to
stare at me, making no moves."

    "I became frightened and tried to hide in a gulley which ran
alongside the tracks.  The beings turned to face me, still
staring. I could feel their eyes in my head!  While watching the
craft in a prone position, I was struck in the head by a blue
beam of light from the craft, and rendered unconscious. Later I
awoke but the craft and beings were gone.  I had the impression
they had done something to me..."

    "Since that time there have been other incidents.  About
eight years ago, while I was taking my son to the movies, my car
was bumped violently from behind while I was waiting at a stop
light.  There were no other cars near at the time.  When we
looked behind, there was nothing there."

    "When I arrived home I examined the rear of the car.  On the
trunk could be seen five round marks arranged in a circular
fashion, each about the size of half-dollar coins.  The paint had
been 'erased' in those areas.

    "About two years later, while working as a guard at a local
college in the hills, I was sitting in my car at the bottom of a
hill, while another guard was on duty at the top.  Later he told
me he had seen a blue ball of light over my car, and watched it
while it flew away.  He described it as the size of a basketball.
I was unaware of what was happening, but did have the impression
my memory was being scanned.  Different memories were coming to
mind, even of childhood times.

    "One night about three years later, I was in the living room
watching television.  It was about 2:30 a.m.  Suddenly the TV
started acting funny, and a kind of static charge seemed to fill
the room. Then a huge wind hit the house.  It felt like it was
going to tear the house apart!  I felt like there was some huge
object right over the house-I was petrified and couldn't leave
the chair.  It stopped after a few minutes.  Later we found the
TV antennae had been damaged.

    "Recently there have been other strange incidents in my
house. Knocks come from the walls and roof.  Things pop off the
walls at times.  All during this time I have had what I believe
is telepathic communication with alien beings, who tell me
they're from the 'Association of Planets' who started life on
this planet and others.  They have mastered what we call genetic
engineering and can create any life form they please by arranging
DNA cells.  They have powerful mental abilities and can move
objects by thought alone.  They control the human mind by
implanting suggestions, making a person think an objects there
when it's not, or making it invisble when it's there!  It's done
by controlling aspects of the brain.

    "It was decided they would build a whole new world on earth.
Association scientists got together and decided what life forms
would be here, and arrangements were made to create ones to fit
in with the various climates on the planet.  They wanted a
balance where no one life form would dominate.  One planet
learder named Lucifer did not agree with this arrangement and had
a dispute with the High Council...

    "Life was eventually planted on Earth.  Scientists
experimented with different life forms, and some of them didn't
work out...eventually it was decided that the intelligent form of
life would be human in appearance.  Different races of human
types in the Association wanted the first humans on earth to
resemble them.  The human races were each allowed to plant a man
and woman that resembled them in different regions on Earth, and
a sophisticated civilzation developed, along with advanced
science.

    "During this time, the Association has also developed life on
two other planets in this solar system, Mars and a planet known
as Vulca.  It was found during this period that mankind had
unstable emotions.  The one once known as Lucifer-dismissed from
the Association and called the "Fallen One" after attempting a
violent takeover-took advantage of this and created friction
between the various civilizations.  As a result, the planet Vulca
was completely destroyed, and the civilization on Mars also, with
most of its atmosphere blown away.

    "Civilization on Earth was destroyed too.  A few structures
from that time still remain, such as Stonehenge and the Great
Pyramids.  Mankind on Earth today is what remains of those people
long ago, and it is feared that the same mistakes of the past
will be repeated...

    "There are some people who will do anything to keep this
knowledge covered up.  They fear the changes that would result
from society's full understanding.  They want to remain on top of
the heap, though they should not be.  This knowledge is for all
people, regardless of race, nationality or creed.  To our fathers
in space, all peoples of the world are one people.

    "I realize what I have to say will bring me some ridicule and
will probably set me back socially-but I am willing to bear those
burdens!  I feel a compulsion to get this information out, no
matter what the cost to myself."
