
From: aa245@cleveland.Freenet.Edu (Robert Parish)


      Counter Measures for Men In Black Encounters

   After reading various reports of people who have had
encounters with Men In Black after a UFO related siting or
happening, It has brought to my attention that common,
average people without any previous military tactical or
planing training are defenseless to the tactics that have
been reported to frighten and intimidate these people to be
silent or change their minds about reporting or turning over
any information or evidence to UFO Investigators. I have
decided that this would be a good application of some of my
U.S. Army (Over Training) that I have acquired in my younger
days. This should not deal with weapons or combat, but more
of a counter physiological warfare approach. Although weapons
training and hand to hand combat training greatly enhance
confidence of an individuals ability to cope with an
abnormal encounter situation. It gives you a power platform
to relate from. The so called (EDGE). But knowledge and
reasoning is a greater power and can and should be used first
to avoid any physical conflict.
   The key to winning any conflict either mental or physical
is to turn the enemies forces exerted against himself or to
use it for your advantage and to exploit his weaknesses.
Remembering and working from some of the Men In Black
document files I have read, I will try to recreate some
reported situations of Men In Black encounters and give the
reader my responses to repel, stop or eliminate the Men In
Black threat.
   First, we will start off with the hypothesis that you have
witnessed an unusual aerial craft and you have reported what
you have seen to the press or radio or television reporters.
That your story was printed or told on radio or television by
reporters. And then a big new black car arrives at your
address with two men dressed in black show up on your front
porch or doorstep. They knock, ring your door bell and you go
to the door and there they are! The Men In Black! You spot
the big knew black car!

1. They announce that they are from such and such and flash
   I.D. at you and quickly put it away.
   a. State, you to wish to verify their credentials. Tell
      them that you want each of them one at a time to remove
      the Badge or I.D. Card plus a drivers licence and one
      major credit card for your examination for proof of
      identification.
   b. State, that otherwise you will refuse to speak to them
      and report them to the police for trying to impersonate
      an official.
2. This is a common security procedure. Ever try to cash a
   check or use a credit card at store?
   a. They are trying to cash a check with you using a badge
      or I.D. Card. The payment is to gain information.
   b. The payment also may include intimating you to keep
      silent by the power of their office.
   c. Know who you are dealing with.
3. You want to provoke a response from them to judge their
   reaction. Remember that you are judging them in the same
   manner as store clerk would to decide to cash a strangers
   check or approve credit card use.
   a. If they are truly who they say they are, they wont have
      a problem with complying.
   b. If they refuse, State that, 'this conversation has
      ended'. This is a standard verbal stiff arm. Ask them
      to leave and state that you are calling the police if
      they don't and that they can explain who they are to
      the police.
   c. Retreat and lock your door. Call the police anyway,
      whether or not you see them leaving and file a report
      of the incident.
4. If they comply with presenting identification, remember
   anything can be replicated. Apparent age the item in
   relation to it's printed date of issue, use and ware are
   harder to fake.
   a. Check for the same names used on all items from the
       same individual.
   b. Check for use of a middle initial or the lack of it.
       4.b.1. If the printed name has a middle initial then
              the signed name in hand writing should have it.
       4.b.2  If the printed name doesn't then the signed
              name should not have it.
   c. Check for the individuals date of birth compared to his
      physical appearance.
   d. Ask each for his/her social security card number.  Use
      the palm of your hand it write it down on if you don't
      have paper but have a ball point pin or ask them to
      wait OUTSIDE while you get it. Never invite them in
      while you locate paper and pin!
       4.d.1. All current police computers can I.D. Make
              anyone by running a social security number
              check.
       4.d.2. Military types will know and remember their
              military serial number but have a problem with
              recalling their social security number.
       4.d.3. A social security number is this BEST thing to
              use to run a computer tracer on an individual
              to see if him/her is who they say they are,
              date of birth, where the live and who they work
              for, valid drivers license and so forth.
       4.c.4. As per the above, a social security number is
              better to have in hand from a suspect
              individual than his/her badge or I.D. card
              number!
5. While looking down at the indentification look at their
   shoes.
   a. Most military types were only certain types of dress
      shoes.
   b. Most federal employee types were only certain styles
      and types of shoes.
   c. Undercover Police will copy each other and wind up
      waring the same styles of shoes. Foot care is just as
      important to policemen as it is to the military or
      postmen.
   d. Civilians, non military, non federal and non police
      will were anything that strikes their fancy. This means
      with no thought as to even the proper style for the
      clothes they are waring or (uniformity, ease of care,
      durability or comfort) when walking long distances or
      standing around for hours.
   e. Check to see if the shoes fit the clothes, the right
      shoe on the right foot and matched socks. Someone not
      familiar with earth dress may have got it wrong.
6. Don't let them lead you into any conversation and let them
   do all of talking. Do not elaborate on anything.
   a. Uh-haw, Yes, to respond true answers
   b. Un-haw, No, to respond to false or no answers
   c. Ever try to hold a conversation or get any useful
      information with someone that only says uh-haw and un-
      hah?
7. Do not invite them into you home, house or apartment! Do
   all the talking at the door or porch and in the open were
   others may see you, them or both you and them.
   a. You don't really know who they are and they are no
      friends of yours.
   b. You don't know what action they may take when they are
      sure that no one else could witness it.
8. Offer them a cigarette if you smoke. If they accept a
   cigarette, offer them your lighter. Hand it to them before
   they can get their own.
   a. Try to wipe the sides of the front and back clean on
      the inside of your pocket and remove it from your
      pocket holding the side or edges only.
   b. When they return the lighter to you let them drop it in
      your palm and then let it slide it back into your
      pocket.
   c. You now have a sample of their finger prints if they
      had any so use a soft cloth to remove it later and
      grasp it with at the top and bottom only and place it
      in a plastic zip lock bag.
9. If they don't accept a cigarette, light up one yourself.
   a. If you smoke this will calm your nerves and put you at
      ease and possibly offend them at the subliminal level.
      This makes none smokers uneasy when placed in close
      proximity to a smoker. This gives you another small
      piece of the advantage.
   b. If the air currents are right for it you can slyly blow
      a little smoke their way to judge their reaction to the
      cigarette gases in the smoke.
   c. You can observe their reaction to consumed cigarette
      gases.
10. If they don't accept a cigarette, offer them a beer or
    any liquid refreshment you have on hand. Even a glass of
    water. But ask them to wait while you go and get it! The
    object is to get a finger print sample if possible, not
    to let them into your home!
11. If they really bug you and you get a strange feeling of
    uneasiness buy their presents at your home, standing
    their looking weird, trust your feelings! Excuse yourself
    for a moment, get your car keys and walk out right past
    them to your car, get in, lock the doors and drive
    straight to the nearest police station and park in the
    open right in front of it and ask the first policeman you
    see to help you to file a report of following and
    harassment and file a complaint report!

Written by: Robert Parish
            aa245 Free Net



--- ConfMail V4.00
 * Origin: Paranet(sm) - The world's most important computer network
@PATH: 30163/150 104/422
(1:30163/150)

