
 



FOIA # 20

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 20
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 06-10-1986
  Subject: 1986 ANSWER TO NSA       

          CUFON - UFO INFORMATION SERVICE SEATTLE, WASHINGTON    
 
               FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT DOCUMENT FILES    
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Mr. Dennis C. Chadwick                                        3-7-86  
Chief, Information Policy
National Security Agency 
Fort George G. Meade
Maryland 20755-6000 
 
Dear Mr. Chadwick:  
 
Thank you for your letter of 3 March 1986 and reply to my previous letter  
on Project Aquarius.  I understand from your letter that you intend to
abide strictly by the letter of the law in responses to FOIA requests.  I  
had not realized that this was the attitude of the NSA or I would not have 
bothered you with questions in general.  I have gotten the impression from 
other sources that the NSA does not maintain a generally open attitude
toward the public, particularly where the subject of unidentified aerial   
objects is involved, and while completely understand the need to restrict  
some information what good is a country if its citizens are kept ignorant. 
Personally I feel that assessing a $15,000 charge for information is  
simply a convenient way to disuade requests. 
 
Let me therefore rephrase my request as I would prefer to judge for myself 
whether Aquarius has anything to do with my interests.  Firstly, I do not  
want to endanger this country or any of its intelligence gathering    
sources.  I am not a spy or a subversive, my father is a surgeon and Lt.   
Colonel in the Air Force and I wouldn't want to harm his career. 
Therefore I am requesting just a clean copy of the material NSA is    
maintaining which describes what the goal of project Aquarius is.  I am    
not asking for all material you have but simply the initial forms, papers, 
or letters, which initiated this project and those which outline its  
purpose.  
 
I cannot conceive that there should be anything but negligible costs to    
photocopy these materials.  This should be waived inasmuch as it should be 
in the interest of the public to be aware of what their taxes are paying   
for.  But if NSA needs reimbursement of copying costs then please let me   
know what the cost will be.   
 
Sincerely,
 
Mr.______________________
_________________________
_________________________
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

FOIA # 21

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 21
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-11-1986
  Subject: 1980 RAF WOODBRIDGE      

                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
                     HEADQUAILRS  COMBAT SUPPORT GROUP (USAFC)   
 
                                  APO NEW YORK    
 
REPLY TO:                                                       13 JAN 81  
           CD  
ATIN OF.  
 
SUBJECT:  Unexplained Lights  
 
TO:  RAF/CC    
 
     1. Early in the morning of 27 Dec 80 (approximately 0300L),two USAF   
     security police patrolmen saw unusual lights outside the back gate at 
     RAF Woodbridge. Thinking an aircraft might have crashed or been force 
     down, they call for permission to go outside the gate to investigate. 
     The on-duty flight chief reponded and allowed three patrolmen to pro- 
     ceed on foot.The individuals reported seeing a strange glowing object 
     in the forest.The object was described as being metalic in appearance 
     and triangular in shape, approximately two to three meters across the 
     base and approximately two meters high. It illuminated the entire fo- 
     rest with a white light. The object itself had a pulsing red light on 
     top and a bank(s) of blue lights underneath. The object was hovering  
     or on legs. As the patrolmen approached the object, it maneuvered th- 
     rough the trees and disappeared. At this time the animals on a nearby 
     farm went into a frenzy. The object was briefly sighted approximately 
     an hour later near the back gate.  
 
     2.  The next day, three depressions 1 1/2" deep and 7" in diameter    
     were found where the object had been sighted on the ground. The foll- 
     owing night (29 Dec 80) the area was checked for radiation.Beta/Gamma 
     readings of 0.1 milliroentgens were recorded with peak reading in the 
     three depressions and near the center of the triangle formed by the   
     depressions. A nearby tree had moderate (.05-.07)readings on the side 
     of the tree toward the depressions.
 
     3.  Later in the night a red sun-like light was seen through the tree 
     . It moved about and pulsed. At one point it appeared to throw off    
     glowing particles and then  broke into five separate white objects    
     and then disappeared. Immediately thereafter, three star-like objects 
     were noticed in the sky.Two objects to the north and one to the south 
     , all of which were about 10 degrees off the horizon. The objects
     moved rapidly in sharp angular movements and displayed red, green and 
     blue lights. The objects to the north appeared to be elliptical thro- 
     ugh an 8-12 power lens. They then turned to full circles. The objects 
     to the north remained in the sky for an hour or more. The object to   
     the south was visible for two or three hours and beamed down a stream 
     of light from time to time. Numerous individuals, including the unde- 
     rsigned, witnessed the activities in paragraphs 2 and 3.    
 
     CHARLES I. HALT, Lt Col, USAF 
 
     Deputy Base Commander    

FOIA # 22

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 22
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-12-1986
  Subject: 1975 B.GOLDWATER,REQ-INFO

BARRY GOLDWATER                                          Committees:  
  Arizona                                        Aeronautical & Space Sci. 
                                                 Armed Services  
                                                 Preparedness Inv Subcommit
                        UNITED  STATES  SCNATE   Tactical Air Power Subcomm
                         Washington D.C. 20510   N. S. Naval Petroleum
                                                 Reserves Subcommittee
March 28, 1975 
 
Mr.Shlomo Arnon
U.C.L.A. Experimental College 
308 Westwood Plaza  
Los Angeles, California 90024 
 
Dear Mr.Arnon: 
 
The subject of UFOs is one that has interested me for some time. 
About ten or twelve years ago I made an effort to find out what was   
in the building at Wright Patterson Air Force Base where the information   
is stored that has been collected by the Air Force, and I was    
understandably denied this request.
 
It is still classified above Top Secret.  I have, however, heard that 
there is a plan under way to release some, if not all, of this material in 
the near future.  I'm just as anxious to see this material as you are, and 
I hope we will not have to wait too much longer.  
 
Sincerely.
 
Barry Goldwater

FOIA # 23

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 23
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-12-1986
  Subject: 1981 GOLDWATER,LETTER # 2

BARRY GOLDWATER                                                Cmmittees:  
 
                                                    Intelligence Chairman  
                                                    Armed Services    
                                                    Tactical Warfare.Chair 
                       UNITED  STATES  SENATE       Preparedness 
                        Washington D.C. 20510       Strategic Nuclear Force
                                                    Communications Chairman
 October 19,1981                                    Aviation
                                                   Science Technology and  
                                                   Space    
                                                   Indian Affairs
 
Mr. Lee M. Grahan:  
526 West Maple 
Monrovia, California 91016    
 
Dear Mr.Graham:
 
First, let me tell you that I have long ago give up acquiring access to    
the so-called Blue Room at Wright-Patterson, as I have had one long   
string of deials from chief after chief, so I have give up. 
 
In answer to your questions, "one is essentially correct." I don't know    
of anyone who has access to the "Blue Room," nor am I aware of its    
contents and I am not aware of anything having been relocated. I can't
answer your question six, in fact, I can't find anyone who would answer    
it.  
 
To tell you the truth, Mr Graham, "this thing has gotten so highly    
classified," ecen though I will admit there is a lot of it that has been   
released, "it is just impossible to get anything on it."    
 
I am returning your papers because I know they are of value to you.   
 
Sincerely,
 
Barry Goldwater

FOIA # 24

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 24
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-12-1986
  Subject: 1983 GOLDWATER,LETTER # 3

BARRY GOLDWATER                                             Committees:    
 
                                                   Intelligence Chairman   
                                                   Armed Services
                                                   Tactical Warfare Chair  
                       UNITED  STATES  SENATE      Preparedness  
                                                   Strategic Nuclear Forces
                                                   C. S. Transportation    
June 20, 1983           Washington D.C. 20510      Communications Chairman 
                                                  Aviation  
                                                  Science Technology and   
                                                  Space
                                                  Indian Affairs 
 
 
 
Mr. William S. Steinman  
15043 Rosalita Drive
La Mirada, California 90638   
 
 
Dear Mr.Steinman:   
 
To answer your questions, I have never gained access to the so-called 
"Blue Room" at Wright Patterson, so I have no idea what is in it. I have   
no idea of who controls the flow of "need-to-know" because, frankly, I
was told in such an emphatic way that it was none of my business that 
I've never tried to made it my business since.    
 
I wish you luck on your investigation. I'm one of those people who    
believe that with some two billion planets scattered around our universe,  
there has to be a couple of more that can subport life on it.    
 
Sincerely,
 
Barry Goldwater

FOIA # 25

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 25
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-20-1986
  Subject: 1942 MEMO FOR PRESIDENT  

 
           CUFON - Computer UFO Network Seattle, Washington 
 
              FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT DOCUMENT FILES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                               SECRET   
 
                                                     February 26, 1942.    
 
    OCS  21347-86   
 
 
         MENORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT:  
 
                   The following is the information we have from GHQ  
         at this mement regarding the air alarm over Los Angeles of   
         yesterday morning:   
 
                   "From details available at this hour:    
 
 
                     1. Unidentified airplanes, other then American   
            Army or Navy planes, were probably over Los Angeles, and  
            were fired on by elements of the 37th CA Brigade  ( AA )  
            between 3:12 and 4:15 AM.  These units expended  1430
            rounds of ammunition.  
 
                     2. As many as fifteen airplanes may have    
            been involved, flying at various speeds from what is 
            officially reported as being very slow to as much    
            as 200 MPH and at elevations from 9000 to 18000 feet.
 
                     3. No bombs were dropped.    
 
                     4. No casualties among our troops.
 
                     5. No planes were shot down. 
 
                     6. No American Army or Navy planes were in action.    
 
                Investigation continuing. It seems reasonable to conclude  
            that if unidentified airplanes were involved they may have
            been from commercial sources, operated by enemy agents for
            purposes of spreeding alarm, disclosing location of antiair-   
            craft positions, and slowing production through blackout. 
            Such conclusion is supported by varying speed of operation and 
            the fact that no bombs were dropped.  
 
                                                  Gen. George C. Marshall  
 
                                                       Chief Of Staff 

FOIA # 26

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 26
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-21-1986
  Subject: 1950 W.B. SMITH MEMO     

            CUFON - Computer UFO Network Seattle, Washington
 
              FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT DOCUMENT FILES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                TOP SECRET   
                                                     CONFIDENTIAL
                          DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT 
 
                    INTRA-DEPARTMENTAL CORRESPONDENCE  
 
                                      OTTAWA, Ontario, November 21, 1950   
                                      ----------------------------------   
                                        PLACE                   DATE  
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
YOUR FILE          SUBJECT                            OUR FILE   
 
                            Geo-Magnetics                       (R.ST.)    
-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
MEMORANDUM TO THE CONTROLLER OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS:    
 
             For the past several years we have been engaged in the study  
of various aspects of radio wave propagation.  The vagaries of this   
phenomenon have led us into the fields of aurora, cosmis radiation,   
atmospheric radio-activity and geo-magnetism.  In the case of    
geo-magnetics our investigations have contributed little to our knowledge  
of radio wave propagation as yet, but nevertheless have indicated several  
avenues of investigation which may well be explored with profit.  For 
example, we are on the track of a means whereby the potential energy of    
the earth's magnetic field may be abstracted and used. 
 
             On the basis of theoretical considerations a small and very   
crude experimental unit was constructed approximately a year ago and  
tested in our Standards Laboratory.  The tests were essentially successful 
in that sufficient energy was abstracted from the earth's field to operate 
a voltmeter, approximately 50 milliwatts.  Although this unit was far from 
being self-sustaining, it nevertheless demonstrated the soundness of the   
basic principles in a qualitative manner and provided useful data for the  
design of a better unit. 
 
             The design has now been completed for a unit which should be  
self-sustaining and in addition provide a small surplus of power.  Such a  
unit, in addition to functioning as a `pilot power plant' should be large  
enough to permit the study of the various reaction forces which are   
expected to develop.
 
             We believe that we are on the track of something which may    
well prove to be the introduction to a new technology.  The existence of a 
different technology is borne out by the investigations which are being    
carried on at the present time in relation to flying saucers.    
 
             While in Washington attending the NARB Conference, two books  
were released, one titled "Behind the Flying Saucer" by Frank Scully, and  
the other "The Flying Saucers are Real" by Donald Keyhoe.  Both books 
dealt mostly with the sightings of unidentified objects and both books
claim that flying objects were of extra-terrestrial origin and might well  
be space ships 
 
                                              ...... 2 
 

FOIA # 27

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 27
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-21-1986
  Subject: 1950 W.B.SMITH MEMO #2   

           CUFON - Computer UFO Network Seattle, Washington 
 
              FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT DOCUMENT FILES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                                                 Page 2    
 
 
from another planet.  Scully claimed that the preliminary studies of one   
saucer which fell into the hands of the United States Government indicated 
that they operated on some hitherto unknown magnetic principles.  It  
appeared to me that our own work in geo-magnetics might well be the   
linkage between our technology and the technology by which the saucers are 
designed and operated.  If it is assumed that our geo-magnetic   
investigations are in the right direction, the theory of operation of the  
saucers becomes quite straight forward, with all observed features    
explained qualitatively and quantitatively.  
 
             I made discreet enquiries through the Canadian Embassy staff  
in Washington who were able to obtain for me the following information:    
 
a.  The matter is the most highly classified subject in the United States  
    Government, rating higher even than the H-bomb.    
 
b.  Flying saucers exist.
 
c.  Their modus operandi is unknown but concentrated effort is being made  
    by a small group headed by Doctor Vannevar Bush.   
 
d.  The entire matter is considered by the United States authorities to be 
    of tremendous significance.    
 
I was further informed that the United States authorities are    
investigating along quite a nubmer of lines which might possibly be   
related to the saucers such as mental phenomena and I gather that they are 
not doing too well since they indicated that if Canada is doing anything   
at all in geo-magnetics they would welcome a discussion with suitably 
accredited Canadians.    
 
             While I am not yet in a position to say that we have solved   
even the first problems in geo-magnetic energy release, I feel that the    
correlation between our basic theory and the available information on 
saucers checks too closely to be more coincidence.  It is my honest   
opinion that we are on the right track and are fairly close to at least    
some of the answers.
 
             Mr. Wright, Defence Research Board liaison officer at the
Canadian Embassy in Washington, was extremely anxious for me to get in
touch with Doctor Solandt, Chairman of the Defence Research Board, to 
discuss with him future investigations along the line geo-magnetic energy  
release.  
 
                                                   ...... 3 
 

FOIA # 28

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 28
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-21-1986
  Subject: 1950 W.B.SMITH MEMO #3   

           CUFON - Computer UFO Network Seattle, Washington 
 
              FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT DOCUMENT FILES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                                                 Page 3    
 
 
I do not feel that we have as yet sufficient data to place before Defence  
Research Board which would enable a program to be initiated within that    
organization, but I do feel that further research is necessary and I  
would prefer to see it done within the frame work of our own organization  
with, of course, full co-operation and exchange of information with other  
interested bodies.  
 
             I discussed this matter fully with Doctor Solandt, Chairman   
of Defence Research Board, on November 20th and placed before him as much  
information as I have been able to gather to date.  Doctor Solandt agreed  
that work on geo-magnetic energy should go forward as rapidly as possible  
and offered full co-operation of his Board in providing laboratory    
facilities, acquisition of necessary items of equipment, and specialized   
personnel for incidental work in the project.  I indicated to Doctor  
Solandt that we would prefer to keep the project within the Department of  
Transport for the time being until we have obtained sufficient information 
to permit a complete assessment of the value of the work.   
 
             It is therefore recommended that a PROJECT be set up within   
the frame work of this Section to study this problem and that the work be  
carried on a part time basis until such time as sufficient tangible   
results can be seen to warrant more definitive action.  Cost of the   
program in its initial stages are expected to be less than a few hundred   
dollars and can be carried by our Radio Standards Lab appropriation.  
 
             Attached hereto is a draft of terms of reference for such a   
project which, if authorized, will enable us to proceed with this
research work within our own organization.   
 
 
                                          (W.B. Smith) 
                                     Senior Radio Engineer  
 
WBS/cc    
 

FOIA # 29

 
CUFON Computer UFO Network

 Document #: 29
     From: UFO INFO SERVICE         
Date Sent: 07-26-1986
  Subject: 1953 GEN.BURGESS 4602nd  

             CUFON - Computer UFO Network Seattle, Washington    
 
                FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT DOCUMENT FILES   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
DECLASSIFIED PER EXECUTIVE ORDER 12356, Section 3.3, NND 841508  
     By  WG Lewis           NARS, Date   Jan 29, 1985  
 
                               CONFIDENTIAL  
 
 
Brig. General W. M. Burgess                23 DEC 1953 
Deputy for Intelligence  
Air Defense Command 
Ent Air Force Base  
Colorado Springs, Colorado    
 
Dear Woody:    
 
     In your new function in the Unidentified Flying   
Object Program, it is our understanding that your 
4602nd people will do the "leg work" so to speak, and  
furnish ATIC with its findings.  For those types that  
cannot be identified by your Squadron, ATIC will handle
from an exploratory point of view. 
 
     Many times the publicity connected with this 
program has been somewhat embarrassing, in that we are 
dealing with a subject, parts of which, are not ex-    
plainable, and the public feeling is that we are holding    
back information they should know about.
 
     Due to a policy letter General Samford wrote this 
Directorate a while back, this office has assumed motor-    
ship of releases to the public.  I would like to quote 
the last sentence of General Samford's letter as it    
pertains to publicity:   
 
          "The Directorate of Intelligence, USAF, 
          will resist consistently any idea that  
          a releasable story can be developed
          about any intelligence activity, pro-   
          cess, or experience."    
 
     As you realize, there is a 10-20% area of unexplainable
objects, in this program.  Also, for this area, we believe  
General Samford's statement above applies, in that it deals 
in an intelligence process performed by ATIC.  Therefore,   
we would like to offer you guidance in the publicity angle  
as it pertains to your activity.   
 
                          CONFIDENTIAL  
                                                                                                                 


                                                                             
                                 
