THE GROOM LAKE DESERT RAT #2 IS UPLOADED HERE WITH THE PERMISSION OF THE 
AUTHOR GLENN CAMPBELL.

THE GROOM LAKE DESERT RAT.   An On-Line Newsletter.                            
Issue #2.  Feb. 2, 1994.                                                       
-----> "The Naked Truth from Open Sources." <-----                             
AREA 51/NELLIS RANGE/TTR/NTS/S-4?/WEIRD STUFF/DESERT LORE                      
Written, published, copyrighted and totally disavowed by                       
psychospy, direct from the "UFO Capital," Rachel, Nevada.                      
See bottom for subscription/copyright info.                                    
                                                                               
In this issue...                                                               
     CALIENTE LAND GRAB HEARING                                                
     THROW THE BUMS OUT                                                        
     LAS VEGAS HEARING DATE SET                                                
     TRESPASSERS' TRIAL RESCHEDULED                                            
     AN AMBASSADORIAL VISIT                                                    
     RECENT ARTICLES                                                           
     "PARANOID NEWS" LAUNCHED                                                  
                                                                               
[Note: This file ends with "####". Check for truncation.]

----- CALIENTE LAND GRAB HEARING -----                                         
                                                                               
About forty-five people packed the tiny VFW Hall in Caliente on                
Feb. 1 for the first of two public hearings on the Groom land                  
grab.  As expected, the event was attended primarily by Lincoln                
County residents and Nevada land-use advocates with a variety of               
objections, mostly unrelated to the Groom Lake base itself.                    
Curtis Tucker, Caliente Area Manager for the Bureau of Land                    
Management (BLM), presided over the hearing with admirable                     
restraint and professionalism.  Nine civilians spoke at the                    
podium, all opposing the withdrawal, and many others asked                     
questions, which Mr. Tucker did his best to answer.                            
                                                                               
Representing the Air Force were two Nellis public relations                    
staffers and a stone jawed Colonel, who did most of what little                
talking there was.  Even the staffers didn't seem to know much                 
about the Colonel; when we asked one of them for the Colonel's                 
first name, he didn't know and had to ask.  The officer was                    
finally identified as Col. Bud Bennett, Range Squadron Commander,              
and his appearance and bearing reminded us vaguely of General                  
Jack D. Ripper in the movie "Dr. Strangelove."                                 
                                                                               
For most of the meeting, Colonel Bennett sat silently at the                   
front taking copious notes.  He spoke at length only at the                    
beginning, reading from index cards in a practiced monotone and                
offering precious little information beyond the one-liner given                
in the withdrawal application:  "to ensure the public safety and               
the safe and secure operation of activities in the Nellis Air                  
Force Range Complex."  The Colonel said from the outset that                   
there would be many questions that he could not answer, and he                 
skillfully avoided most.  Here are some of his more lively                     
comments...                                                                    
                                                                               
"The military lands withdrawal act of 1986, with an amendment in               
1988, withdrew the land currently in the Nellis Range Complex.                 
Certain elevations on the east side of the range were not                      
included in the withdrawn area.  Due to the increasing visits by               
people to this area, the Air Force determined that something had               
to be done to ensure public safety and the safety and security of              
operations in the Nellis Range Complex.                                        
                                                                               
"When someone is on White Sides and other nearby areas, altitude               
and route changes have to be made by aircraft to avoid harming                 
people and to prevent disclosure of operational matters.  Some                 
missions have to be delayed or canceled.  This impacts the                     
effective use of the Nellis Range Complex.                                     
                                                                               
"The area proposed to be withdrawn was looked at very carefully                
and, in discussions with BLM, we were told to keep the amount to               
be withdrawn to an absolute minimum.  We eventually did so,                    
selecting several thousand acres less than originally was roughed              
out."                                                                          
                                                                               
That was it for informational content.  The only other data the                
Colonel leaked out was in response to a question at the end of                 
the meeting.  When did he first learn about the current                        
withdrawal?  He said he was first informed of it around August.                
How long before that had the withdrawal been in the works?  He                 
said he did not know exactly, but that it was at least a year.                 
(It is unclear now whether he meant a year before now or a year                
before August.)                                                                
                                                                               
Citizens were allowed five minutes each to voice their concerns,               
a restriction that some chose to flaunt in a show of civil                     
disobedience heartily supported by the audience.  Most of the                  
expected angles were covered:  A representative of the Shoshone                
Nation pointed out that this land and most of the Nellis Range                 
was deeded to the tribe by treaty in the 1800s and that the                    
government had taken it without permission.  Sadly, we suspect                 
that this argument won't go any further now than it has in the                 
past.  Other speakers were concerned that the AF had not kept the              
promises it made for the earlier Groom Range withdrawal, such as               
paving the road from Rachel into the Test Site.  Mr. Tucker                    
countered that most of the promises he knew about had indeed been              
met.  He noted that although the road from Rachel was not paved,               
it had been considerably improved at AF expense.                               
                                                                               
This reporter exercised his five minutes standing in front of a                
big map of the area.  He protested the vague reason the AF was                 
giving for the withdrawal and said that the application could                  
only be evaluated if the AF gave the real reason, which wasn't a               
national security issue in itself.  He read a list of the major                
newspapers and defense publications [See below.] that had already              
reported on this land grab and described the Groom base as one of              
the best publicized defense installations in the world.  Although              
acknowledging that some of the secrecy at Groom may be justified,              
he described the continued non-existence of the base as an                     
absurdity.                                                                     
                                                                               
This speaker then noted that if the purpose of the withdrawal was              
to hide the base from public view, then the AF had failed once                 
again.  He pointed on the map to Tikaboo Peak and Badger Mtn.,                 
which he said also offered a direct view of the base.  He was                  
concerned that, if the AF was allowed to take the current land                 
for a vague reason like "the public safety," then it could come                
back later to take the other viewpoints for other vague reasons.               
Thereby, the AF could subvert the Engle Act, which requires                    
withdrawals of more than 5000 acres to be reviewed by Congress.                
He concluded by warning the audience, "If we let this withdrawal               
go through for this vague reason, then they'll be able to take                 
all of Nevada in little bitty pieces."                                         
                                                                               
Lincoln County Commissioner Eve Culverwell was mad as hell.  (We               
wouldn't want her any other way.)  She brought up some important               
points about mitigation and asked for the release of other lands               
in Lincoln County that the AF no longer needs.  However, the                   
focus of Culverwell's ire, and the principle target of many                    
others in attendance, was not the AF but the BLM, which controls               
the vast majority of land in Nevada.  Culverwell and other                     
activists do not necessarily question the AF's right to take the               
land, but they say the AF should be dealing with the state and                 
county, not BLM.  They say the federal government has no real                  
jurisdiction over public lands, based on statutes at the time of               
statehood.  This rather radical approach throws a wild card into               
the land grab fight, and certainly adds some color to the                      
proceedings.  [More below.]                                                    
                                                                               
In all, the hearing was lively but proceeded pretty much as                    
anticipated.  No one spoke in favor of the Air Force except for                
their hired representatives, but there was some pessimism among                
attendees as to whether even their near-total opposition made any              
difference.  Several people voiced the concern that no matter                  
what the citizens of Lincoln County said, their comments would                 
simply be filed away and the AF was going to get the land anyway.              
                                                                               
We understand their pessimism but do not share it.  The current                
battle is taking place on many different levels:  in the media,                
along the border, within the BLM and inside the AF itself.  The                
public hearings represent only the most obvious portion of a                   
mostly subterranean conflict, but they are vital as a visible                  
show of popular opposition and a preliminary step to future legal              
action.  Remember that the land grab fight can be a powerful tool              
to achieve much larger goals.  Our ultimate purpose is not so                  
much to save the land but to expose the base, and that process                 
seems to be marching ahead even more inexorably than the White                 
Sides withdrawal.                                                              
                                                                               
----- THROW THE BUMS OUT -----                                                 
                                                                               
Speeches by Nevada "home-rule" activists greatly enlivened the                 
Jan. 31 hearing.  Seeing this land fight as a test case for their              
new ideas, several speakers drove hundreds of miles from other                 
parts of Nevada to be in attendance.  When a leader of the                     
movement, Dick Carver, finally had his chance to speak, he                     
announced that five minutes were not enough, and that he would go              
on as long as necessary.  When the five-minute tone was sounded,               
the BLM moderator tried to interrupt but was rebuked by the                    
audience, who unanimously demanded that Carver be allowed to                   
continue.  Carver thus walked away with about 15 minutes of air                
time and gave everyone in the audience the warm satisfaction of                
having beaten BLM into submission at least on that issue.                      
                                                                               
Readers who live outside the western U.S. may have never even                  
heard of BLM, never mind grasping the boundless animosity it                   
often enjoys among locals.  The vast majority of land in Lincoln               
County is "public," that is, owned equally by all U.S. citizens,               
and is currently managed as a public trust by the federal                      
government.  A significant portion of the economic activities in               
the county have to go through the BLM.  It leases grazing and                  
mineral rights and enforces many despised environmental                        
regulations, thus placing it in the role of evil landlord who                  
everyone loves to hate.  Local sentiments are elegantly expressed              
by one resident's well-trained dog who stays, sits and lies down               
on command.  The dog will also "kill" on command, but only on                  
special key word.  Give him a old shoe, say "BLM," and it's                    
rendered to shreds instantly.                                                  
                                                                               
The position of the revolutionaries is that the federal                        
government has no right to manage public lands within the state                
and that it does so only by default.  The activists cite statutes              
dating back to Nevada's founding which they contend give the                   
state the sole authority to manage public lands.  BLM, they say,               
has no real delegated authority to do anything, and they are                   
trying to prove this by a series of Freedom of Information                     
requests.  Whenever an interesting legal case comes up in which                
BLM is the enforcer, they demand that BLM turn over documents to               
prove that they indeed have that authority.  According to the                  
activists, BLM is inherently unable to supply those documents and              
thus can be forced to back down from whatever action they were                 
attempting.                                                                    
                                                                               
We are pleased that the rebels have adopted the Groom land grab                
as a cause celebre.  Without them, there might have been only                  
half as many people at the Caliente hearing.  At the same time,                
we are a little confused on what the end result of this rebellion              
is supposed to be, and we are mildly skeptical about whether it                
can succeed.                                                                   
                                                                               
The current anti-BLM movement reminds us of a number of radical                
females we have known who would just as soon eliminate the male                
gender altogether.  On the surface, we can understand the                      
sentiments.  Males must account for 85% of the violent acts in                 
this country and easily 99% of the female grief and pain.                      
They're aggressive, suppressive, insensitive and demand too much.              
Give them an inch and they'll take a mile.  WHO NEEDS THEM                     
ANYWAY?  "Just say No," is the best solution.  If you excise them              
definitively from your life then all your problems will be                     
solved.                                                                        
                                                                               
Okay, so maybe that's a bad example.  The point is, although such              
dramatic plans to "Throw the Bums Out" may seem solid in theory,               
they usually get tripped up somewhere in the implementation.  We               
march into the battle with high idealistic hopes but a few years               
later usually find ourselves living with the bums anyway.  Given               
this typical outcome, one wonders if it would be more productive               
to take a less combative approach that might be more likely to                 
succeed in the long term.  Instead of expending all our resources              
in an attempt to totally annihilate the enemy, we could take the               
time to understand him, learn his fears and vulnerabilities and                
the kind of leverage we have over him, then take him by the balls              
and turn him into our slave.                                                   
                                                                               
No, wait, never mind.  BAD example.                                            
                                                                               
----- LAS VEGAS HEARING DATE SET -----                                         
                                                                               
The Las Vegas hearing on the Groom land grab has been officially               
set for Weds., March 2, 1994 from 5-7 pm at the Cashman Field                  
House, rooms 203-204.   (Cashman Field House is a stadium complex              
on Las Vegas Blvd. just north of Downtown.)                                    
                                                                               
This is the BIG ONE.  (Caliente was only 4.0.)  Everyone's                     
invited!  More info will be provided in Desert Rat #3, which will              
be issued at least a couple of weeks before then.                              
                                                                               
----- TRESPASSERS' TRIAL DELAYED -----                                         
                                                                               
In Desert Rat #1, we reported the case of the seven Las Vegans                 
who stumbled across the military border while visiting the                     
Tikaboo Valley.  Due to their lawyer's schedule conflicts, their               
trial, originally scheduled for Mar. 2, has been delayed to a                  
later date.  (We'll publish the date when we know it.)  The                    
location will be Alamo Justice Court in the County Annex Building              
in Alamo, 90 miles north of Las Vegas.  Come one, come all!                    
                                                                               
The change of date is providential because it means that the                   
trial will not compete with the Las Vegas hearing.                             
                                                                               
----- AN AMBASSADORIAL VISIT -----                                             
                                                                               
On Jan. 28 at our psychospy headquarters in Rachel, we were                    
pleased to receive a surprise visit from the Ambassador Merlyn                 
Merlin II from the planet Draconis.  He had taken human form,                  
resembling to us a bearded Abe Lincoln or Amish farmer, and was                
driving a 10-year-old brown Monte Carlo.  When he first appeared               
at our door, he was holding a small black book in front of him in              
both hands.  In an impulsive attempt at humor, we blurted out,                 
"Oh, a Bible salesman!"  He smiled at that and showed us that it               
was only a notebook.  The bible, it seems, was out in the car.                 
Later, he went to fetch it and read to us some lengthy passages.               
                                                                               
Three aviation watchers from the Bay Area happened to be visiting              
our headquarters at the time, and we were all quite fascinated                 
with the Ambassador.  He was a "Being of Light," he said,                      
although we touched him and found him to be quite solid.  He was               
on a mission to promote the coming "Golden Age," when the aliens               
would be integrated into our society and we humans would evolve                
into a higher form.  This transformation, he said, would take                  
place within the next five years.                                              
                                                                               
The Ambassador did not always know that he was a Draconian.  He                
had thought he was an ordinary human for most of his time on                   
earth until he began to experience some revelations in 1986.                   
Even now, he has no direct memories of Draconis, although he is                
certain that that is his origin.  He said that another part of                 
him was on Draconis even as he was speaking to us.  He suspected               
that he was also simultaneously a Venusian and that part of his                
being was currently at home on Venus.                                          
                                                                               
He was proud of his role as Ambassador to Earth and was                        
especially pleased to be officially recognized in that capacity                
by the State of Nevada.  He gave us a xeroxed letter to prove his              
status.  It was on official state letterhead from the Secretary                
of State in Carson City.  The letter was dated March 31, 1993,                 
and was signed by the secretary herself.  It read:                             
                                                                               
   Ambassador Merlyn Merlin II                                                 
   The Embassy of Christ                                                       
                                                                               
   Dear Mr. Ambassador:                                                        
                                                                               
   Thank you for your invitation; however, I will not be able                  
   to be in California.  Thank you for your consideration.                     
                                                                               
   Sincerely,                                                                  
   Cheryl A. Lau                                                               
                                                                               
We wish the Ambassador the best of luck in his mission and urge                
the Federal government to accord him similar recognition.                      
                                                                               
----- RECENT ARTICLES -----                                                    
                                                                               
Following are recent articles on Groom Lake in the major media.                
Each article is available from psychospy                                       
for 25c each (to cover                                                         
copying and postage).                                                          
                                                                               
5/93:  On-Site Inspection Agency:  Fact Sheet on Open Skies                    
Treaty [which allows foreign overflights of Groom Lake].                       
9/93: Intl. Defense Review: "Groom Lake's secret revealed?"                    
[Mothership theories, by Sweetman.]                                            
10/19/93:  L.V. Review-Journal: "State to examine Stealth base                 
for toxic fumes."  [Hazardous waste dump at Groom base.]                       
10/17/93:  Salt Lake Tribune: "No peeking from peak:  Air force                
wants to seize mountain to protect secret base."                               
10/18/93:  Federal Register  "Notice of proposed withdrawal and                
opportunity for public meeting."                                               
10/21/93, Aerospace Daily: "Air Force tries to plug 37-year-old                
leak with Groom Lake Land Grab."                                               
10/23/93, L.V. Review-Journal: "Air Force promises openness" [in               
open-pit burning case].                                                        
10/23/93, Scripps Howard Service: "Mountain 'spying' upsets AF at              
secret Nevada base."                                                           
10/25/93, Defense Week: "Air Force land grab eclipses view of                  
'UFOs'."                                                                       
10/29/93, Inside the Air Force: "USAF seeks to keep unwanted eyes              
from watching secret Nevada base."                                             
11/1/83, Newsweek: "The Mystery at Groom Lake."                                
11/1/93, Testor Corp.: Announcement to dealers of June 94 release              
of Lazar saucer model.                                                         
11/1/93, Aviation Week: "No more peeks." [one paragraph]                       
11/5/93, CBS affiliates: Report on Testors Aurora & Mothership                 
models. [transcript]                                                           
12/93, Intercepts Newsletter: "Dispatches from the front." [Road               
sensors found on public land]                                                  
11/6/93, L.V. Review-Journal: "State seeks evidence of burn pits"              
[at Groom base].                                                               
12/5/93, L.V. Review-Journal: "'Spy' turns focus on buffer area."              
[Campbell]                                                                     
12/5/93, L.V. Review-Journal: "Budget for hypersonic spy plane                 
rivals Nevada Test Site."                                                      
12/7/93: L.V. Review-Journal: Editorial cartoon.  [Prospector                  
chased by security goons.]                                                     
12/27/93, High Country News: "How military secrecy zones out                   
Nevada." [Oct. camp-out]                                                       
11/11/93, CBS Evening News: Report on Testors Aurora model and                 
Groom Lake. [transcript]                                                       
12/28/93, Wall Street Journal: "'Earthlings Welcome' in tiny NV                
town where mysterious aircraft often fly overhead."                            
1/2/94, Washington Post: "The Pentagon's Secret Garden."  [by                  
Sweetman]                                                                      
1/3/94, Aviation Week: Letter by John Andrews protesting land                  
grab.                                                                          
1/5/94, L.V. Review-Journal: "Seven people arrested in Groom Lake              
incident." [Trespassers]                                                       
1/29/94, L.V. Review-Journal: Editorial re: Lazar and Knapp                    
[dismissive].                                                                  
1/30/94, L.V. Review-Journal: "Air Force buffer zone for Groom                 
Lake base to be discussed."  [Hearings]                                        
2/94:  Wired Magazine: "A Visit to Dreamland." [2-page photo of                
Groom base]                                                                    
                                                                               
----- "PARANOID NEWS" LAUNCHED -----                                           
                                                                               
Pleased with the instant success of The Groom Lake Desert Rat,                 
psychospy has launched yet another free on-line newsletter--this               
one on an unrelated subject.  THE PARANOID NEWS will explore                   
psychospy's favorite mental disorder, paranoia, and show how it                
effects the thoughts and behavior of all of us.                                
                                                                               
Paranoia is a fascinating mechanism by which a person tends to                 
bring about the very thing he most fears.  If he is terrified                  
enough of failure, then he will often create it for himself by                 
his own hand.  Paranoia is more pervasive than we might suppose,               
and there is not one of us who isn't touched.  Paranoia effects                
our every decision, especially our most important ones, so don't               
read this newsletter unless you are prepared to question your                  
past choices or the wisdom of your current circumstances.  This                
is not a pretty newsletter.  There are a lot of icky things                    
inside our minds, and THE PARANOID NEWS will delight in exposing               
them.                                                                          
                                                                               
Issue #1 will be available within the next few days.  Email                    
subscriptions are free of charge to internet users.  Send your                 
request to psychospy@aol.com.  Hard copy subscriptions are                     
available for $1.50 per issue, mailed anywhere in the world.                   
                                                                               
----- SUBSCRIPTION AND COPYWRITE INFO -----                                    
                                                                               
(c) Glenn Campbell, 1994.  (psychospy@aol.com)                                 
                                                                               
The entire contents of this on-line newsletter are copyrighted                 
and may not be reproduced in any form without permission, EXCEPT               
FOR THE FOLLOWING:  For six months following the date of                       
publication, you may photocopy this text or send this document                 
electronically to anyone who you think might be interested,                    
provided you do it without charge.  You may only copy or send                  
this document in unaltered form and in its entirety, not as                    
partial excerpts.  After six months, no further reproduction of                
this document is allowed without permission.                                   
                                                                               
This newsletter is published on an irregular basis whenever                    
conditions warrant.  Email subscriptions are currently available               
free of charge to any internet user.  To subscribe (or                         
unsubscribe) to current and future editions of THE GROOM LAKE                  
DESERT RAT, send a message to psychospy@aol.com.  We will                      
acknowledge your request within a few days; if you receive no                  
reply it may indicate an addressing problem.  In that case, call               
the human at 702-729-2648.  Hard copy subscriptions to this                    
newsletter are available for $1.50 per issue, ordered from the                 
address below.  (e.g. $15 for the next 10 issues, mailed anywhere              
in the world.)                                                                 
                                                                               
For a free catalog of documents and products relating to Groom                 
Lake and government secrecy, send us your US mail address.  An                 
email version of the catalog is also available (no pictures, size              
13K).  Among the documents available is the "Area 51 Viewer's                  
Guide," the definitive 110-page visitors  and reference guide to               
the border and its lore.  (Available for $15 plus $3.50 postage.)              
Also available is the popular Groom Lake cloth patch.  ($8, plus               
$1 postage if ordered separately.)                                             
                                                                               
The US mail address for psychospy, Glenn Campbell, Secrecy                     
Oversight Council, Area 51 Research Center, Groom Lake Desert Rat              
and countless other ephemeral entities is:                                     
     HCR Box 38                                                                
     Rachel, NV 89001 USA                                                      

####
