The Groom Lake Desert Rat Issue 16 is posted her with the permission of the author Glenn Campbell.  Posted By: Michael Curta\MUFON

NOTE: This file has been edited from 2 parts into 1. 


THE GROOM LAKE DESERT RAT.   An On-Line Newsletter. Issue #16.  September 16,
1994.
 -----> "The Naked Truth from Open Sources." <----- AREA 51/NELLIS
RANGE/TTR/NTS/S-4?/WEIRD STUFF/DESERT LORE Direct from the "UFO Capital,"
Rachel, Nevada.

Written, published, copyrighted and totally disavowed by psychospy@aol.com.
See bottom for subscription/copyright info.

In this issue...
     SUBTLETIES OF THE TELEVISION TALK SHOW, PART II
     NEW BEN RICH BOOK
     LAND GRAB UPDATE
     OUR READERS RESPOND
     INTEL BITTIES

[Note: This issue has been sent in two parts.  The first ends with a
"CONTINUED" notice
and the second ends with "###".]

 ----- MEDIA COMMUNICATIONS 103B -----

SUBTLETIES OF THE TELEVISION TALK SHOW, PART II (Continued from DR#15)

[Montel William Show expected broadcast date: Monday, Sept. 19.]

We feel guilty and owe our local readers an apology for suggesting in DR#11
that if a major U.S. city had to be nuked by a terrorist group, Las Vegas wouldn't make
a bad target.  That's not the way we really feel.  We only pretend to hate Las Vegas because
it is fashionable to do so; in truth it's quite a livable city once you get to know
it.  Beyond the Strip, Vegas is a modern, efficient metropolis in the Orange County, Calif.,
mold where it is easy to get things done.  The neon jungle can be easily avoided, but when we
choose to go there, it offers some of our favorite free entertainment.  Although we do
not gamble, drink or go to shows, we have always enjoyed the casinos for the insights they
offer into human nature.  We find it endlessly amusing to wander through the acres of
slot machines observing small-brained visitors blow away their hard earned savings on odds
that are never in their favor.  Nowhere else in the world are the flaws of human
perception so obvious and easily studied.

Our warm sentiments for Las Vegas, and subsequent guilt for maligning it, were
reawakened by our recent visit to New York City, where we took part in an
episode of the Montel Williams talk show.  We REALLY hate New York and really wouldn't mind
if the Sons and Daughters of Liberty took out Manhattan first.  New York illustrates
what those small-brained Vegas visitors do with their lives when they go back home. 
Packed by the millions into an area about the size of the Tikaboo Valley, all personal space
and human
dignity are taken away and then sold back to people at exorbitant prices. 
Almost anywhere in the country would be a healthier, more productive place to live; all it
takes is a little initiative to get up and go.  Like the dumb clucks in front of the slot
machines, New Yorkers just sit there and keep dropping in quarters.

Haunting memories of humility and futility came flooding back to us as our
plane circled La Guardia airport in the rain waiting for clearance to land.  In a previous life
we had made this trip many times before, wearing a business suit (We break out in hives
just thinking about it.) and carrying a briefcase and umbrella (which, dammit, we had
forgotten this time).  We were returning now like Crocodile Dundee from the outback, carrying
no coat and tie, only our jolly swag.  We didn't want to be here, but we had a job to
do.  A mission. In Times Square, we were scheduled to face the forces of evil--Sean David
Morton--in what we expected to be a talk show about Area 51.  Sean was the con artist who
conducted tours of public land for $99, who passed off 737s as UFOs and who had recently
reemerged on the talk show circuit as a Groom Lake expert.
 We felt that we had to engage the Doctor Reverend Morton now, before he grew
bigger and further muddied the waters that we had worked so hard to clear.

The producers of the talk show understood Sean as well as we did, but chose to
invite him back anyway.  Sean could speak with certainty about UFOs at Area 51, while we
were still groping for data and could only ask questions.  Sean was there to make
extravagant claims, and we were there to shoot him down.  The conflict between us would
create Entertainment, which is the ultimate aim of the talk show format.

 ..... ARRIVAL .....

Our misgivings and painful memories aside, we felt like a Somewhat Important
Person when we arrived at the airport.  Although we were not paid for our appearance,
airfare was provided by the show, with a free stopover in Boston.  As arranged a few days
before, we would be met by a driver who would take us to the posh Embassy Suites Hotel in
Times Square.  The next morning, an escort would meet us at our hotel and take us to
the nearby studio.  Upon completion of the taping, we would receive our $50 per diem for
food and miscelanous expenses, then a private car would whisk us back to the airport. 
We would be in and out of lovable old New York in less than 24 hours.

We felt like Donald Trump as we exited the airplane and were met by our
driver, holding up a sign with our name on it.  He seemed unclear about our destination,
however, so we directed him to the Embassy Suites.  This was located in one of America's most
expensive blocks of real estate, directly fronting Times Square.  As we rode the
elevator up to the spacious second floor lobby, we tried to estimate the cost of a room here.  In
Vegas, a bed in a classy joint like this could be had for $45 a night; here, we suspected
it was more like $250.  We tried not to sound arrogant and Grey Poupon-ish as we introduced
ourselves to the desk clerk as a guest of the Montel Williams Show.

Alas, the clerk could find no reservation in our name, and some embarrassed
phone calls to the show determined that we were staying not here, but at the Salisbury
Hotel, an old "keyhole" establishment wedged between clothing stores about 15 blocks uptown
and a corresponding number of notches downscale.  Now don't get us wrong: The
Salisbury is very "nice."  There's no lobby, but comfortable rooms are offered at the
reasonable rate of only $110 per night.  As Tom Bodett of Motel 6 says on the radio ads, every
motel's the same when you're sleep'n.  The amenities mattered even less to us on this trip
since, in the Crocodile Dundee spirit, we intended only to lay out our swag on the floor
and not muss up the pretty bed.  Still, the Salisbury was not the Embassy Suites, and
the unannounced downgrading of our accommodations could not help but start the
wheels of paranoia turning.

From our room, we called Russ Estes in California, who had challenged Sean
Morton's credentials in the previous Montel Williams show and was not invited back.  He
said that the same thing had happened to him:  He arrived at the Embassy Suites only to
find he had been downgraded to the Edison.  "Looks like you're being set up like I
was," said Estes.  He said that for his show, they put Morton and the pro-UFO crowd in
the Embassy Suites, and without notice moved the skeptics and him into the downscale
Edison.  "You know darn well where Sean is staying tonight," said Estes.

The walls of our room started closing in on us as we practiced our lines.  We
knew we would have limited time on the air and would have to get out our message early
and with no mincing of words.  "I've lived near Area 51 for a year and a half and have
known Sean Morton and his work even longer, and I can tell you, without reservation, Sean
is a charlatan, a fraud and a phony.  He'll tell any sort of lie to make himself
sound important." But wait, maybe "charlatan" was too big a word for this audience.  We had
previously considered and rejected "sociopath" as being too upscale, while "victim of
Munchausen syndrome" wasn't the proper clinical term.  (In diagnostic manuals, this
disorder, named after the tall-tale-telling baron, refers to the faking of medical symptoms,
not the broader compulsive lying we sought to convey.)  How about "a fraud, a phony, a liar
and a conman"?  That was simple and direct enough for television, but was it too many
words?

In a night of fitful sleep, we saw a stream of fevered images.  In one scene
we are shirtless and bulked up to 250 pounds from years of illegal steroid use.  We
point our beefy finger directly at the camera and explode in anger:  "Sean David Morton,
I've taken enough of your lies!  You're a fake, a fraud and a phony.  This is the grudge
match of the century, Sean David Morton, and when you meet Psychospy in the ring, Saturday
night, Madison Square Garden, only one of us is going to come out of it alive!"

In other scenes our bravado collapses.  The Montel Williams Show has prepared
an ambush for us consisting of all our present and former UFO enemies.  In
addition to Sean, they have flown in conspiracy nutcase and "Old Faithful" promoter Gary
Schultz, who, after we challenged his takeover of a Rachel UFO conference, accused us vaguely of
child molestation--nonspecific as to time or place.  He would no doubt repeat those
charges again on the air.  Next to him is competing nutcase and "Old Faithful"
promoter Erik Beckjord, who shows the audience dramatically enlarged photos of "Old
Faithful"--aircraft landing lights to us mortals--and points out hidden alien messages in the big
white blob. Fortunately, Beckjord's hatred for Psychospy is tempered only by his violent
feuds with Mr. Schultz.  Lastly, Montel is sure to welcome Lazar's moronic gatekeeper,
"Mr. Nasty" Gene Huff, who will sling his usual creative epithets in our direction: 
"Prick!  Dickhead! Sicko-Spy!  Goober!  Leach!" (the latter being misspelled as given).  Not that
we couldn't take on all these dim-wits at once in any arena, but in the resulting fray,
Sean Morton would pretend to be the reasonable one and get away scot-free.

 ..... THE STUDIO ....

When we awoke in the morning, we found ourselves, alas, still in New York,
seventeen stories above street level in a non-suicide- protected room with Zero Hour
rapidly approaching.  No longer trusting the staff of the show and unable to confirm
that any escort was coming for us, we took the subway to Times Square.  The studio was on the
fourth floor above an older block of storefronts in the corner of the square where
religious zealots harangue passers-by.

We arrived, as requested, about three hours before the 11 am taping.  An
associate producer briefly showed us the studio and the audience warm-up room, then
escorted us to "Green Room Number One," which would be our home until we went on stage.  The
floorplan reminded us of a miniature Roman Coliseum before a big gladiatorial
battle. In the middle was the studio, which is much smaller than it appears on
television. Arranged in a sloping, arena-style format are chairs for a small audience--made to look
big by camera angle--facing a platform where the guests sit in padded armchairs.
Arrayed around the outside of the studio and separated from it by soundproof walls, are a
series of "Green Rooms" where the guests are warehoused until they appear.  Each Green Room
resembles a small living room with green carpeting on the floor and walls and
with a sofa and comfortable chairs facing a television set.  Our Green Room also contained
an impressive assortment of Pepperidge Farm cookies.  We were not relaxed enough
to eat anything at the time, but we remembered to stuff our traveling bag full of
them for later consumption.

Once you enter a Green Room, you are a prisoner there and cannot leave without
an escort.  If you must go to the bathroom, you have to inform a production
assistant carrying a walkie-talkie.  After he gets clearance over the radio, he steps into the
hallway and furtively looks both ways before beckoning you to follow.  He waits for you
outside the bathroom, then escorts you back, keeping a constant eye on you to make sure
you keep up and do not stray.

In a program that actively seeks on-air conflict, careful management of the
Green Rooms is clearly a high priority.  Guests who are about to go to war with each other on
the show shouldn't be allowed to run into one another in the hallways.  In many shows,
there will be surprise guests who the others won't be aware of until they are revealed on
the air, so the cat mustn't be let out of the bag.  In fact, Sean Morton didn't know that we
were going to be on the show until we suggested, foolishly, that someone tell him. (Those
impulsive ethics are always getting in our way.)

All of this plotting behind the scenes might have heightened our own paranoia
had we not been joined in our Green Room by two representatives of sanity, the requisite
UFO skeptic and his coach from the New York Area Skeptics.  The on-air skeptic was a
first- timer like us, but his coach was a veteran of several talk shows and was refreshingly
cynical about what we could hope to accomplish.  According to him, the skeptics--who
Psychospy was clearly classed among--are usually brought on last and are allowed the least
amount of airtime.  If their arguments are too good and they manage to demolish the
principal guests, then the episode can simply be thrown out and never aired.  Even when a show
airs, it may still be edited, and when time is limited, the skeptic's words are the
first to go.

As show time approached, we were visited in our Green Room by a series of
specialists. First came the make-up man, who kindly took the sheen off our balding heads. 
Then came a woman with a clipboard and a man with a video camera.  On the clipboard was
a form we were asked to sign which said that we wouldn't sue the producers no matter
what happened on the show.  After signing, we were asked to state our names into
the camera and say that we agreed to the terms on the form.  Montel himself also stopped
in briefly to greet us, and the head producer visited several times to tell us what was
happening.

Soon, even in our sound-proofed Green Room, we began to hear the roar of the
crowd. Next door, the audience was being "warmed up" for the show, with instructions
on when and how to applaud and when to keep quiet.  Practicing their loudest and most
enthusiastic response, their thunder shook the coliseum walls.  The show was about the
begin.

 ..... FREAK SHOW .....

Sitting on a comfortable sofa, drinking Pepsi and watching TV in our Green
Room, what we saw on the screen could have been any midday talk show.  We would have changed
the channel if we could, but we had to pay attention to this one because it was
actually taking place next door and we would be on it in a few minutes.  Montel Williams stood
in the audience, and after the initial enthusiastic applause, he announced that he
had been to Area 51 just as he promised.  Then, after a commercial break, a clip was shown
from the previous broadcast:  Montel promising Sean that he would visit.  When the clip
was over, Montel said he would show the tape from his recent trip later in the show, but
first he had guests to introduce.

On the stage were two women:  A young, attractive one, and an older one with
dark circles around her eyes that even makeup couldn't hide.  They were the abductees, the
standard starting point whenever a talk show does UFOs.  As far as we were concerned,
these two could have come from Central Casting.  We had never seen them before, but we
had seen people like them on other shows, and we knew most of what they would say
before they opened their mouths.  The attractive woman recounted how the aliens had
paralyzed her in her bed while her boyfriend slept undisturbed beside here. Without her
permission, the aliens touched and prodded her naked body, first in gentle, caring ways and
then in ways that were not at all pleasant.  She felt betrayed by the ruder touches and
would never trust the aliens again.

The second woman, with the sunken eyes, said that she had been abducted all of
her life by many different kinds of aliens.  She had, in fact, killed a number of them.
The aliens had implanted tiny fetuses in her body and removed them three weeks later,
remarkably developed to the stage of three to four months.  The woman knew the fetuses
weren't hers, because she previously had a hysterectomy.  (This raised snickers among our
fellow skeptics, who asked themselves, Where did the woman carry these infants--in
her bladder?)

A tape was then shown of Montel's tour of the woman's house in Las Vegas,
where he and his crew had visited just before they came to Rachel.  The house was filled
with geodesic shapes and magical crystals designed to ward off the aliens.  The woman slept
under a six-foot pyramid with a crystal hanging from the center.  To us, it looked
like the same contraption Sean Morton is seen meditating under in one of his publicity
photographs.  We wondered if he had sold it to her.

By the time of the second commercial break, the theme had been set.  Watching
TV in our Green Room, we knew that this woman would be the star of the show, and Area 51
could be no more than brief diversion.

 ..... THE ALIENS .....

Upon return from the break, two more chairs had been added.  The new guests
were a clean-cut looking couple who publish Unicus, "the magazine for earthbound
extraterrestrials."  These people haven't been abducted by aliens; they ARE
aliens.

Again, although we had never met this couple, we knew their basic story before
they spoke.  We have run into many aliens here in Rachel, like the Ambassador
Merlyn Merlin II from Draconis [DR #2] and the very attractive Venus From Venus, whose
business card says she does "weddings, exorcisms and alignment healings."  Although these
beings appear in human form, you know they are aliens because they immediately
introduce themselves as such.  One young, spacy-eyed woman we once met opened the
conversation by asking us where we were from.  We said, "Boston," and she
said, "No, where are you from Out There?"  We had to confess that we didn't know.  She
said that her name was Willow--just Willow--and that she was from the Pleiades.  Pleiadians,
she explained, are very peace/love/60s sort of aliens, in contrast to the evil,
gray, rectum-coring Reticulans, which Ambassador Merlin claims to represent.

Like the aliens we have known, the couple on the Montel show grew up thinking
they were human and did not know the truth until experiencing a revelation.  As the
woman explained it, a similar mystical event lead her to found the magazine.  She said that
she saw a holographic vision of Unicus before her.  On the show, someone asked, What is
Unicus? Unicus, she said, was the magazine.  She saw a 3-D vision of the magazine in
front of her,so all she had to do was look through the pages to know how to write and
design it.

Still sitting in our Green Room, our mind preoccupied with other things, we
may have lost touch with the woman's narrative sequence, so we apologize if we don't get her
story exactly right.  Sometime after the vision, the woman felt an unexplained
calling to go to Peru.  The next day, it so happened, a brochure arrived in the mail for a tour
to Peru, and seeing how this could not be coincidence, she signed up.  Through her hotel
room window at Lake Titicaca, she saw several alien spacecraft emerge from a cave in a
cliff.  They split into many craft and then vanished.  Somehow, this confirmed her vision and
convictions about Unicus.

The man had nothing memorable to add, except that he was also an alien.  The
two had met at a UFO conference and were immediately drawn to each other by their
alienness, but we forget the details.

Then there was another commercial break.  The show was now half over.  Nothing
introduced so far had any stated connection with Area 51.  This was a show
about aliens and abductees.  We remain neutral and do not feel qualified to pass judgment
on their claims, no matter how Loony Tunes.  Perhaps some abductions are real, but we
have often experienced another kind of UFO abuse that is rarely reported to the public:
abducted by abductees, which this show clearly was.  We realized, now, that our role would
be only that of a token skeptic to be brought on at the very end to give the
production a thin veneer of respectability.

 ..... SEAN MORTON .....

When Sean finally appeared in the fifth chair, he was almost irrelevant. 
Because he knew we were here and would be on next, he made no extravagant claims about Groom
Lake. What he said was a totally forgettable rehash of generic UFO cliches.  We heard him say
something about "Roswell," but can't remember anything else.  He provided
nothing substantial enough to challenge.

During Sean's segment, Montel showed the tape of his superficial visit to
Rachel and Freedom Ridge, without Sean.  Pat and Joe Travis of the Little A-Le-Inn were
interviewed outside their establishment, offering their usual unconditional support for
everything anyone ever claimed to have seen or experienced.  Psychospy, looking hokey in
our camouflage fatigues, met Montel in our driveway and showed him the big map on
the ceiling of our Research Center.  There were some driving scenes, then Montel
appeared on Freedom Ridge saying that he had come as promised.  Finally, through the
window of the Humvee we saw some daring footage of the secret base in the distance.

There was a break for another commercial.  The program was winding down now
and at last it was our turn.  We were escorted from our Green Room and joined the
stage with TV newsman George Knapp, meaning that we would each have only microseconds 
of air time.

When the lights came up again, the camera was still on Sean.  Commenting on
the tape, he said that he had personally discovered the location Montel had just
visited.  A lie! He had never even been to Freedom Ridge, let alone discovered it.  We wanted to
shout, "Liar!" but unfortunately we had not yet been introduced and did not exist as
far as the camera was concerned.

Time was running out, and there were still three guests left.  George Knapp
was introduced first.  He had come expecting to talk about Area 51 and the Bob Lazar story,
which he had introduced to the world with his KLAS-TV report in 1989.  Unfortunately, he
had time only for a few short lines.  George said something about the charlatans taking over
the field, but unfortunately he did not name Sean directly.

Then, at last, Psychospy was introduced.  We were asked what brought us to
Area 51. We said that we had seen a UFO video tape in which Sean Morton claimed that you
could see a dozen UFOs from the Black Mailbox on even a bad night.  We said that we came
here first to check out this claim but saw only military exercises.

Sean replied immediately, "Unfortunately, Glenn arrived too late," and then he seamlessly
took control of the camera.  We still feel dazed and aren't sure how it happened, but
somehow we dropped the ball and didn't have a chance to respond.  With the
show drawing to a close, any disagreements between Sean and us seemed futile.
Although Sean got more air time than we did, even he wasn't really a player here.

Members of the audience had questions, but only for the sunken- eyed abductee.
Someone asked, "You say you killed some aliens.  If so, then what happened to the
bodies?"

The abductee replied that they had disintegrated instantly.

Someone else asked (off-camera):  "How did you kill the aliens?"

The abductee replied, "With a crystal pistol."

We wondered, silently, whether Sean had sold her the crystal pistol.

After a final commercial break, the skeptic came on, making it eight chairs. He was
allowed a few token words of objection.  There was another question or two
from the audience for the abductees and aliens, then Montel proceeded to close the show.

The last thing he did before ending the show was poll each of the guests to ask if they had 
seen UFOs.  We recognized this as our set-up.  When the question came to Sean,
he said that he had seen UFOs at two locations, including Area 51.  When it came to
us, we said that we had never seen any UFOs, even when we were on the next ridge over from
where Sean was seeing UFOs galore.

We got an applause for that.  Our only minor triumph.

 ..... EPILOGUE .....

Upon return to our Green Room, we found it occupied by two guests for the next
show, taping in the afternoon: "Interracial Couples Who Haven't Told Their Parents".
In our Green Room was the interracial couple, looking tense.  In another Green Room,
we heard, was the white man's conservative mother.  Since the mother hadn't seen her son
in three years, she thought she was doing the show, "Parents Reunited With Their Children."

Isn't America a wonderful country!

In retrospect, maybe we didn't do so badly.  At least we survived with a few shreds of dignity intact. 
Even if we did not achieve the definitive victory we had hoped for, at least Mr. Morton was kept in check and aside from his Freedom Ridge discovery, didn't have a chance to spread any new nonsense. In a crunch, we were forced to meet Sean Morton on his own turf. Now, with that encounter ended in a draw, we can bide our time an move the battle to a venue wher we feel more confortable. Slowly, methodically, we'll data him to death. 

-----BEN RICH SKUNK WORKS BOOK-----

Former Lockheed Skunk Works president Ben Rich, Who directed the devolopment of the F-117 stealth fighter, will be publishing his memories next monh.  "Skunk Works: A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed" is a tell-almost-all book with many nameless references to Groom Lake.  Rich shows an obvious disdain for the "blue suiters" of the Air Force and expresses his frustrations with excessive secrecy and the caprices of the military procurement process.  Popular Science is excerpting some of Rich's book in theirOctober 1994 issue, which should be hitting newsstands and mailboxes within the next few days.

Our mail order arm, Secrecy Oversight Council, will be selling the Ben Rich book as soon
as it is available.  The price is $24.95 plus $3.50 priority mail postage. Scheduled
publication date is Oct. 4, but we are accepting orders now.  (Little, Brown, 350 pages, hardcover.)

 ----- LAND GRAB UPDATE -----

Like a soap opera, the land withdrawal process for Freedom Ridge goes on and on.  In
DR#13, we said that Oct. 15 would be the soonest the land could be closed. Now, Jan. 1
looks like a more reasonable minimum, but we wouldn't place any bets on that date either.
The process could conceivably drag on much longer--up to a deadline of Oct. 95--and we
still don't know for certain that the withdrawal will be approved.

We have never claimed to fully understand the withdrawal process, owing to its many
bureaucratic subprocesses, but after talking with the BLM case officer, here is our
understanding of the future steps.  Dates are our earliest guess, and further delays are
possible anywhere in the process.

Step 1:  Release of Environmental Assessment and proposed land use plan amendment
(prerequisites for the withdrawal).  Notice of proposed amendment published in Federal
Register.  (Maybe 10/15.)

Step 2:  Public is offered a 30-day protest period on land use plan amendment.
 (Maybe 10/15 through 11/15.)

Step 3:  Las Vegas BLM addresses amendment protests.

Step 4:  Las Vegas BLM issues record of decision on land use plan amendment, clearing
the way for the withdrawal application to proceed.  (Maybe December.)
Presumably, that decision can be appealed.

Step 5:  Las Vegas passes the withdrawal application to the BLM state headquarters in 
Reno.  Reno takes an unknown length of time reviewing application and making a recommendation.

Step 6:  Reno passes application to the national BLM director in Washington. National
director takes an unknown length of time reviewing application and making a recommendation.

Step 7:  National BLM director passes application to Secretary of the Interior, along with a
recommendation.  Secretary makes decision to approve, reject, delay or consult
entrails of sacrificed animals.  In the event of an approval, we assume (but are not
certain) that the public will be given due warning that the land will be closed, presumably with
a notice in the Federal Register.

Judging from the many hurdles still to be crossed, we are not yet making any plans for our
Freedom Ridge End-of-the-World Party.

 ----- OUR READERS RESPOND -----

The following items of correspondence were recently received at our Rachel
headquarters.

CLONING NOT IMPOSSIBLE (Email)

   "HI!  Just wanted to introduce myself.  I am the guy who pulled the toy gun
on TV Consumer Advocate David Horowitz in 1987 on live TV at KNBC in Los Angeles.  I
wanted to get my message out about my family having been cloned by the government and
the subsequent events in my shattered life as a result of this action.  I assure you I am of the
most sincere nature, and can verify all of what I believe in.  I am currently writing a book
titled "The Invasion of the Human Race", which I hope to complete in the next few weeks....  
I was interested in your comments about Larry King being cloned.  I can tell you that this
is quite possible."
   -- G.S.

GOODBYE CALIFORNIA (Letter)

   "I am interested in getting a copy of the map of the US after the coast of California 
supposedly falls into the ocean.  If you do not have them, do you know where I can get one?"
   -- S.G., Mt. Carmel, PA

 ----- INTEL BITTIES -----

ST. PAUL UFO CONFERENCE.  On Nov. 5 & 6, the Science Museum of Minnesota will
be offering a two-day symposium entitled, "The Science and Politics of UFO Research," which
promises to be a significant cut above the usual UFO loonfest.  Only credentialed
scientists will be speaking--no aliens, New Age channelers or SDMs.  Speakers
will include Stanton Friedman, Kevin Randle, John Mack, Thomas Bullard (folklorist), James
McCampbell (physicist), Dr. Richard Haines (psychologist), Dr. Ron Westrum sociologist),
Jack Kasher (physicist and astronomer), Michael Zimmerman (philosopher) and others.
The topic is less about UFOs themselves than how human science and society can
deal with such investigations.  Psychospy will be discreetly in attendance.  The
price for the symposium is $130.  For more details, email penson@geom.umn.edu or contact the
Museum at 30 East 10th St., St. Paul, MN 55101. (612) 221-4511.

LAZAR SAUCER.  A shipment of the new Lazar Spacecraft plastic model from the
Testor Corporation is supposed to arrive at our Research Center by next Thursday. 
Although we still do not have it in our hands, we can assure our readers, IT EXISTS.  The
model, that is. You can debate endlessly the veracity of the Lazar story, but at least it is
rich enough in technical details to make this model possible.  Designer John Andrews, best
known for producing the first F-117 model before it was made public, spent many hours
with "The Bob" getting the details right.  The plastic saucer is 13" in diameter, and
the price from us is $25.00 plus $5.50 priority mail postage.

SKEPTIC HISTORY BOOK.  Now in stock: "Watch the Skies: A Chronicle of the
Flying Saucer Myth," by Curtis Peebles.  This is a skeptic's history of the UFO
movement, offering a plausible, although often superficial, explanation for most of the
major publicized UFO events since the 1947 Kenneth Arnold sighting.  Anyone who has
pursued any of these stories, like Roswell or the Travis Walton case, is bound to find
grounds for argument, but it is still interesting to see the flying saucer phenomenon
placed into an historical perspective.  For example, the Roswell flying saucer announcement
came only a few weeks after the widely publicized Arnold "saucer" sighting near Mt.
Rainier, strengthening the suggestion that the Roswell officers may have been
influenced by that publicity.  Anyone seriously interested in UFOs needs to read this sobering
book. Available from us for $24.95 plus $3.50 priority mail postage. (Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1994, 342 pages, hardcover.)

UPCOMING TV SEGMENTS.  An UNSOLVED MYSTERIES show on UFOs with a segment on
Area 51 will air Sunday, Sept. 18 at 8pm.  The MONTEL WILLIAMS talk show taped
on Aug. 23 will probably be shown Monday, Sept. 19 (time varies by city).  (In a
demonstration of talk show incest, Montel recently appeared as a guest on the Conan O'Brian
talk show, where he promoted his Area 51 show.)  The live LARRY KING special on UFOs,
direct from Rachel, Nevada, will air Saturday, Oct. 1 at 8pm ET (5pm PT) on the TNT cable
network.

 ===== SUBSCRIPTION AND COPYRIGHT INFO =====

(c) Glenn Campbell, 1994.  (psychospy@aol.com)

This newsletter is copyrighted and may not be reproduced without permission.
PERMISSION IS HEREBY GRANTED FOR THE FOLLOWING:  For one year following the
date of publication, you may photocopy this text or send or post this document
electronically to anyone who you think may be interested, provided you do it
without charge.  You may only copy or send this document in unaltered form and in its
entirety, not as partial excerpts (except brief quotes for review purposes).  After one
year, no further reproduction of this document is allowed without permission.  (The same one
year grace period also applies to all previous issues of the Rat, extended from six months.)

Email subscriptions to this newsletter are available free of charge.  To
subscribe (or unsubscribe), send a message to psychospy@aol.com.  Subscriptions are also
available by regular mail for $15 per 10 issues, postpaid to anywhere in the world.

A catalog that includes the "Area 51 Viewer's Guide", the Groom Lake patch and
hat and many related publications is available upon request by email or regular mail.

Back issues are available on various bulletin boards and by internet FTP to
ftp.shell.portal.com, directory /pub/trader/secrecy/psychospy.  Also available
by WWW to http://alfred1.u.washington.edu:8080/~roland/rat/desert_rat_index. html

The mail address for Psychospy, Glenn Campbell, Secrecy Oversight Council,
Area 51 Research Center, Groom Lake Desert Rat and countless other ephemeral entities
is:
     HCR Box 38
     Rachel, NV 89001 USA

###
