           DID RAIN OF FIRE ON ICE ENABLE FIRST EARTHLY LIFE?

              Theory Departs Sharply From Conventional Vew

                           Los Angeles Times

        San Francisco, Feb. 20 -- All life on Earth may owe its origin
        to fire and ice, as a rain of immense meteorites shattered the
        thick ice sheathing a primordial ocean more than 4 billion years
        ago, according to a new theory presented by scientists today.

        In a sharp departure from the conventional scientific view of
        how life began, several leading authorities told the American
        Association for the Advancement of Science that such cataclysmic
        impacts may have intermittently melted frozen oceans and
        triggered in their depths a cascade of chemical reactions that
        spontaneously created the elemental building blocks of life.

        [...]

        Battered by the fiery impacts of asteroids greater than 50 miles
        in diameter, the ice would have thawed and refrozen repeatedly,
        perhaps as often as every 100,000 years.

        [...]


 Those familiar with the Thule Group, the Vril Society, or Hans
 Horbiger's theories on "Welteislehre" ought to get a kick out of all
 this. For those unfamiliar, consider this quote from Horbiger to Willy
 Ley:

        It [the origin of the solar system] was revealed to me, when as
        a young engineer I was watching one day some molten steel poured
        on to wet ground covered with snow: the ground exploded after
        some delay and with great violence."

 Building on this experience like Newton with his apple, Horbiger went
 on to develop a theory of Fire and Ice rarely matched in the annals of
 crackpot science: The sunspots are actually chunks of ice falling onto
 the sun from Jupiter; the last great race of giants was wiped out some
 120,000 years ago when our third (chronologically speaking) moon fell
 into the oceans; Atlantis was sunk by floods resulting from the capture
 of our present moon -the fourth to orbit our planet- which is of course
 nothing but a ball of ice; the so-called Milky Way is merely a band of
 ice through which a few suns like our own are shining (most of what we
 call stars are actually pieces of ice, of course); and so on.

 Fastening on this theory, some of the leading members of the Nazi Party
 took up Horbiger's banner (since surely the theories of Jews like
 Einstein and the other corrupt intellectuals and scientists were
 nothing but lies to subjugate the superior Aryan race), they
 "justified" the atrocities of the Ahnenerbe and the Final Solution with
 such garbage as the now-supposedly supportable theory that Jews,
 Gypsies and other sub-human races come from the evolutionary nadir
 between the third and fourth moons -- and being non-human, could be
 treated the same as any other varmints.

 For those not familiar with Pauwels and Bergier's book _The Morning of
 the Magicians_ (originally published under _The Dawn of Magic_), I
 heartily recommend it. It does tread on some rather shaky, "Terra X" -
 like ground, but is a fascinating read nonetheless.

 Wonder if those scientists in the newspaper article had read it?

 Love is the law, love under will.

      - Christeos Pir
