Jeff Walker #64 @7317
Wed Jun 26 22:45:05 1991

 Other farms hit

  Bill Veenhuizen wasn't the only farmer in Maple Valley,
Washington having mutilation problems. On Sunday, November 11, two
female sheep were found with their sexual organs removed. The
Hicks-Raburn King County Police found small holes on the carcasses
that they concluded might be BB gun pellet wounds, but no pellets
were found.

Mystery technology

  Another major question: Had the blood been drained from all those
animals without cutting them? If alien life forms are responsible,
and blood is a fluid they need for sustenance, do the aliens have
a technology which can transfer molecules of blood from within a
living system and leave mysteriously dead animals behind having no
cuts at all: The same question might apply to the hundreds of wild
horses which were found dead in Nevada in 1989.

  In November, 1989, in Red Cloud, Nebraska, rancher Ron Bartels
found a large, 1,000 lb. Chianina cow dead and mutilated. The
Franklin County Sheriff Department investigated, and veterinarian
Carl Guthrie, D.V.M., was asked to do a necropsy. In his report, he
stated that a four-inch straight incision had been made over the
cervical trachea. Beyond that cut inside the animal, over eight
inches of trachea and esophagus had been surgically removed- "The
skin over the abdomen was removed in a clear, demarcated line-no
musculature disturbed," he noted. And the rectum and vagina were
cored out.

Predators discounted

  Dr. Guthrie concluded:  "There were definite signs of suspicious
acts to the body of this cow-the nature in which the skin was
severed and removed was not characteristic of a predator strike."

  In addition to those cuts described by Dr. Guthrie, the neat
circular patch of skin removed around the cow's eye, along with the
eyeball, has been one of the hallmarks of animal mutilations since
the 1970s. Rancher Ron Bartels told me, ". . . after several days,
there had been no predation, and with the number of coyotes we now
have in this area, they completely strip a carcass very quickly."
But nothing touched the strangely cut cow.  How are the cuts made:
In my book An Alien Harvest, published in 1989, I show for the
first time that tissue gathered from mutilator cuts in Arkansas on
March 11, 1989, revealed the following characteristics under
microscopic examination:
1) The line is pinpoint thin;
2) The line was subjected to high heat, probably 300 degrees
Fahrenheit or above, leaving a hard and darkened edge;
3) The cuts were made rapidly, probably in two minutes or less,
because there is no inflammatory cell destruction which typically
begins in a few minutes after any trauma to tissue
(See contrasting photomicrographs).

  In addition to the 1989 mutilation reports in Idaho, Washington,
Nebraska and Arkansas, there have been other cases in Colorado,
Oklahoma, Missouri and Florida. Further, over 800 wild horses in
Nevada have died mysteriously, about 70 domestic cats have been
Found dead and bloodlessly mutilated in Tustin, California and 30
more cats in the East Bay of San Francisco. A city employee in
Setauket, Long Island, NY, has reported to me that about a dozen
raccoons, opossums, dogs and cats have been found in Percy Rayner
bloodlessly mutilated with cuts similar to cows. I have also
received calls about mutilations in Canada, but have no firm
photographs or reports.

  After An Alien Harvest was released in June of 1989, I received
a letter from a security guard in Denver, Colorado. He described a
night in August when he was patrolling the grounds of a large
corporation west of the city. From his truck, he could see a large
circle of lights in the dark sky. The lights remained stationary
over a pasture a few hundred feet from the security guard. He was
afraid to report the unidentified flying objects, because UFOs
meant ridicule and he didn't want to lose his job. But he felt
guilty about not reporting it, because the next morning he watched
a farmer gather up a couple of dead and mutilated cows from the
pasture where the lights had hovered overhead. He asked me, "What
kind of technology are we talking about? I never took my eyes off
those lights. There was no beam, no sound, nothing. How did they do
it?"

  That's a question which has haunted ranchers and law enforcement
since the first worldwide reported mutilation of a horse in  1967.
Not only how-but why? If alien life forms are intruding on this
planet and harvesting from animals and humans, is a program of
genetic experimentation and sustenance the answer? Or only part of
a larger alien need? Will the 1990s finally bring humans face to
face with an alien intelligence that has secretly used earth life
for eons? As we become more conscious of its presence, will we
learn that the alien intent is simply to survive without human
help? Or is there some larger and more complex alien scheme which
could challenge the future of human existence?

                                -Linda Moulton Howe-


End of file.

