Jeff Walker #64 @7317
Thu Jul 11 23:58:51 1991
<<Continued From Previous Post>>

want to keep a document classified, they'll store it with another
agency. I have an inside secretarial source who's actually seen the
documents filed." The NYPA's Patrick denies that any such
documentation exists, and dismisses the incident by claiming that
all Hudson Valley UFO sightings were later identified as light
aircraft, There was no videotape taken by on-site surveillance
cameras, Patrick insists, or audio recording of oral
communications, both pieces of evidence which Imbrogno strongly
feels do exist and are being retained somewhere. According to
Imbrogno's sources, a security shake-up ensued the very next day.
"A number of agencies came in, including the NRC and military
personnel, and they supposedly cleaned out everything. You have to
remember that with nuclear reactors, you're only going to get 10
percent of the real story. They're overly terrified of bad
publicity, and are really afraid of the anti-nuclear groups, which
can cause trouble. Anything that happens is immediately covered up,
including UFO sightings.  "

An 'irregularity'

  Imbrogno further alleges that shortly after the UFO infringement,
a crack in the reactor's casing was discovered. The public didn't
hear about such a situation until a year later; the NYPA's Patrick
denied any  "crack, " although he did recall a time when Reactor #2
may have developed an "irregularity. " Imbrogno says, "[Indian
Point officials] made a public statement that operations were not
affected, that everything was normal. But I've been told by several
people that they lost power, the security system dropped, and the
reactor controls went crazy. Apparently it was caused by the UFO."
No way, says the NYPA.  "Any implication that the sightings of
these [light aircraft] in any way affected Reactor #3 is false",
Patrick said. Imbrogno's sources indicate otherwise. Supposedly, a
mass of sophisticated, high-accuracy tracking equipment was
installed at the complex, enabling security to quickly generate a
computer image of whatever aircraft might be affecting the
equipment. Apparently such problems are still going on. Patrick
would not comment on what kinds of security equipment protect
Indian Point, but stressed that nothing new has been installed
since the incident.
  Imbrogno is also suspicious that the armed security forces at the
site may have had reason to attempt firing on the craft, again an
allegation flatly refuted by the NYPA. "I know a number of
helicopters with rocket launchers were sent up and followed the
craft for some distance," Imbrogno commented, citing his anonymous
sources for the info. "When these helicopters went on their way,
the object moved off and started crossing the Hudson, and
disappeared up north."
  Officials will not talk to Imbrogno, nor answer his letters, he
says. UFO spoke with Cliff Spieler, vice president at the New York
Power Authority. He, like Patrick, basically dismisses the entire
affair. "Having looked into this thing and living two miles from
Indian Point, think the UFO reports are nonsense, " he said. "[All
Hudson Valley UFO sightings] are linked to small planes flying out
of Duchess County."
    At one time, officials speaking for Indian Point made their
position quite clear to Imbrogno, "They said, 'you can cooperate
with us, or you don't have to cooperate with us. If you don't
cooperate with us, you have to face the consequences, because you
are dealing in an area of national security. The incident that took
place over there involved national security because it was a breach
of security at a nuclear reactor.' But they weren't ready to say
who was breaching security!" In considering the "who," Imbrogno
took in a number of hypotheses, including the possibility that the
incident was an elaborate test flight of a secret military craft,
such as the B-2 Stealth bomber, or a covertly-planned contingency
test of the plant's security operations, carried out under the
guise of a UFO overflight.

  Nothing is impossible, he'll admit. But the most tenable answer,
he feels, is that the UFO was an extraterrestrial craft.  "I don't
think our government could be so bold with a craft of the kind that
appeared at Indian Point," he said.  "Talking to these security
people, and looking into their eyes," his voice trailed, "  .  .
. they tell a story of this one cop who got up on the roof below
the UFO, and the thing started moving a little bit. He pulled out
his gun, looked at it, then put the gun back in his holster and
ducked!  .  .  . The people who were telling these stories are not
familiar with the UFO literature. If I really wanted to go into
this, with no fear of what would happen to me, I'm sure there's an
incredible story here. I am still being given
information about certain things going on there-In the nighttime,
people seeing little creatures coming through the walls of the
casing on the reactor, and military personnel indicating 'we're
aware of these creatures and we don't care if they're from outer
space-shoot 'em!'  .  .  . On a newscast on Channel 7 in New York,
they were interviewing one guy, and he said, 'I saw it going over
the reactor! I think they're sucking the power from it! That's what
they're doing!' But a civilization that has this type of vehicle-
any intelligence, whatever it is-I'm sure doesn't need nuclear
energy."

  Ed. Note: In a letter to UFO shortly after this article was
written, Imbrogno added to his remarks.  "It is hard to believe
that people like John Lear and Bill Cooper are revealing 'top
secret' information with little or no repercussions. I just poked
my nose a little too deep into an area of national security and got
my ears pinned back for it. My next step is to approach this in a
legal way by asking for an investigation (preferably by a member of
Congress) to find out how and why the security at this
government reactor was violated and why information is being
withheld."

End of file.

--- ZMailQ 1.10 @9:1012/3.0
 * Origin: ParaNet Alpha Delta <sm> The Data Base (9:1012/3)
