
John Lear has requested that the following file be published on
ParaNet.  It is our philosophy to encourage debate on paranormal
issues, no matter how controversial, and we welcome his input.  The
information contained in this file has not been verified by ParaNet,
nor do the opinions expressed herein necessarily reflect those of the
Administrator or other ParaNet staff members.

We can state, however, that John is who he says he is, and has
numerous contacts in sensitive positions that could conceivably allow
him access to information of this type.
-------------------------

Statement Released By:

John Lear

December 29, 1987

John Lear, a captain for a major US Airline has flown over 160
different types of aircraft in over 50 different countries.  He holds
17 world speed records in the Lear Jet and is the only pilot ever to
hold every airline certificate issued by the Federal Aviation
Administration.  Mr. Lear has flown missions worldwide for the CIA and
other government agencies.  A former Nevada State Senator candidate,
he is the son of William P. Lear, designer of the Lear Jet executive
airplane, the 8-track stereo, and founder of Lear Siegler Corporation.
Lear became interested in the subject of UFO's 13 months ago after
talking with United States Air Force Personnel who had witnessed a UFO
landing at Bentwaters AFB, near London, England, and three small
aliens walking up to the Wing Commander.


Note to the Press:

     The government of the United States continues to rely on your
personal and professional gullibility to suppress the information
contained herein.  Your cooperation over the past 40 years has
exceeded our wildest expectations and we salute you.

"The sun does not revolve around the Earth"
"The United States Government has been in business with little gray
extraterrestrials for about 20 years"

The first truth stated here got Giordano Bruno burned at the stake in
AD 1600 for daring to propose that it was real.  The second truth has
gotten far more people killed trying to state it publicly than will
ever be known.

But the truth must be told.  The fact that the Earth revolves around
the sun was successfully suppressed by the church for over 200 years.
It eventually caused a major upheaval in the church, government, and
thought.  A realignment of social and traditional values.  That was in
the 1800's.

Now, about 400 years after the first truth was pronounced we must
again face the shocking facts.  The "horrible truth" the government
has been hiding from us over 40 years.  Unfortunately, the "horrible
truth" is far more horrible than the government ever imagined.

In its effort to protect democracy, our government sold us to the
aliens.  And here is how it happened.  But before I begin, I'd like to
offer a word in the defense of those who bargained us away.  They had
the best of intentions.

Germany may have recovered a flying saucer as early as 1939.  General
James H. Doolittle went to Sweden in 1946 to inspect a flying saucer
that had crashed there in Spitzbergen.

The "horrible truth" was known by only a very few persons: They were
indeed ugly little creatures, shaped like praying mantises and who
were more advanced than us by perhaps a billion years.  Of the
original group that were the first to learn the "horrible truth",
several committed suicide, the most prominent of which was General
James V. Forrestal who jumped to his death from a 16th story hospital
window.  General Forrestal's medical records are sealed to this day.

President Truman quickly put a lid on the secret and turned the screws
so tight that the general public still thinks that flying saucers are
a joke.  Have I ever got a surprise for them.

In 1947, President Truman established a group of 12 of the top
military scientific personnel of their time.  They were known as MJ-
12.  Although the group exists today, none of the original members are
still alive.  The last one to die was Gordon Gray, former Secretary of
the Army, in 1984.  As each member passed away, the group itself
appointed a new member to fill the position.  There is some
speculation that the group known as MJ-12 expanded to at least several
more members.

There were several more saucer crashes in the late 1940's, one in
Roswell, New Mexico, one in Aztec, New Mexico, and one near Laredo,
Texas, about 30 miles inside the Mexican border.

Consider, if you will, the position of the United States Government at
that time.  They proudly thought of themselves as the most powerful
nation on Earth, having recently produced the atomic bomb, an
achievement so stupendous, it would take Russia 4 years to catch up,
and only with the help of traitors to Democracy.  They had built a jet
aircraft that had exceeded the speed of sound in flight.  They had
built jet bombers with intercontinental range that could carry weapons
of enormous destruction.  The post war era, and the future seemed
bright.  Now imagine what it was like for those same leaders, all of
whom had witnessed the panic of Orson Wells' radio broadcast, "The War
of the Worlds", in 1938.  Thousands of Americans panicked at a
realistically presented invasion of Earth by beings from another
planet.  Imagine their horror as they actually viewed the dead bodies
of these frightening looking little creatures with enormous eyes,
reptilian skin and claw like fingers.  Imagine their shock as they
attempted to determine how these strange "saucers" were powered and
could discover no part even remotely similar to components they were
familiar with: no cylinders or pistons, no vacuum tubes or turbines or
hydraulic actuators.  It is only when you fully understand the
overwhelming helplessness the government was faced with in the late
40's that you can comprehend their perceived need for a total,
thorough, and sweeping cover up, to include the use of "deadly force".

The cover-up was so successful that as late as 1985 a senior scientist
with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, Dr. Al
Hibbs, would look at a video tape of an enormous flying saucer and
state the record, "I'm not going to assign anything to that (UFO)
phenomena without a lot more data".  Dr. Hibbs was looking at the
naked emperor and saying, "He certainly looks naked, but that doesn't
prove he's naked."

In July of 1952, a panicked government watched helplessly as squadron
of "flying saucers" flew over Washington, D.C., and buzzed the White
House, the Capitol Building, and the Pentagon.  It took all the
imagination and intimidation the government could muster to force that
incident out of the memory of the public.

Thousands of sightings occurred during the Korean war and several more
saucers were retrieved by the Air Force.  Some were stored at Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base, some were stored at Air Force bases near the
location of the crash sight.

One saucer was so enormous and the logistic problems in transportation
so enormous that it was buried at the crash sight and remains there
today.  The stories are legendary on transporting crashed saucers over
long distances, moving only at night, purchasing complete farms,
slashing through forests, blocking major highways, sometimes driving 2
and 3 lo-boys in tandem with and extraterrestrial load a hundred feet
in diameter.

On April 30, 1964, the first communication between these aliens and
the U.S. Government took place at Holloman Air Force Base in New
Mexico.  3 saucers landed at a prearranged area and a meeting was held
between the aliens and intelligence officers of the U.S. Government.

During the period of 1969-1971, MJ-12 representing the U.S. Government
made a deal with these creatures, called EBE's (Extraterrestrial
Biological Entities, named by Detley Bronk, original MJ-12 member and
6th President of Johns Hopkins University).  The "deal" was that in
exchange for "technology" that they would provide to us, we agreed to
"ignore" the abductions that were going on and suppress information on
the cattle mutilations.  The EBE's assured MJ-12 that the abductions
(usually lasting about 2 hours) were merely the ongoing monitoring of
developing civilizations.

In fact, the purposes for the abductions turned out to be:

(1)  The insertion of a 3mm spherical device through the nasal cavity
of the abductee into the brain.  the device is used for the biological
monitoring, tracking, and control of the abductee.

(2)  Implementation of Posthypnotic Suggestion to carry out a specific
activity during a specific time period, the actuation of which will
occur within the next 2 to 5 years.

(3)  Termination of some people so that they could function as living
sources for biological material and substances.

(4)  Termination of individuals who represent a threat to the
continuation of their activity.

(5)  Effect genetic engineering experiments.

(6)  Impregnation of human females and early termination of
pregnancies to secure the crossbreed infant.


The U.S. Government was not initially aware of the far reaching
consequences of their "deal".  They were led to believe that the
abductions were essentially benign and since they figured the
abductions would probably go on anyway whether they agreed or not,
they merely insisted that a current list of abductees be submitted, on
a periodic basis, to MJ-12 and the National Security Council.  Does
this sound incredible?  An actual list of abductees sent to the
National Security Council?  Read on, because I have news for you.

The EBE's have a genetic disorder in that their digestive system is
atrophied and not functional.  Some speculate that they were involved
in some type of accident or nuclear war, or possibly on the back side
of an evolutionary genetic curve.  In order to sustain themselves they
use an enzyme or hormonal secretion obtained from the tissue that they
extract from humans and animals. (Note: Cows and Humans are
genetically similar.  In the event of a national disaster, cow's blood
can be used by humans.)

The secretions obtained are then mixed with hydrogen peroxide and
applied on the skin by spreading or dipping parts of their bodies in
the solution.  The body absorbs the solution, then excretes the waste
back through the skin.  The cattle mutilations that were prevalent
throughout the period from 1973 to 1983 and publicly noted through
newspaper and magazine stories and included a documentary produced by
Linda Howe for the Denver CBS affiliate KMGH-TV, were for the
collection of these tissues by the aliens.  The mutilations included
genitals taken, rectums cored out to the colon, eyes, tongue, and
throat all surgically removed with extreme precision.  In some cases
the incisions were made by cutting between the cells, a process we are
not yet capable of performing in the field.  In many of the
mutilations there was no blood found at all in the carcass, yet there
was no vascular collapse of the internal organs.  This has been also
noted in the human mutilations, one of the first of which was Sgt.
Jonathan P. Louette at the White Sands Missile Test Range in 1956, who
was found three days after an Air Force Major had witnessed his
abduction by a "disk shaped" object at 0300 while on a search for
missile debris downrange.  His genitals had been removed, rectum cored
out in a surgically precise "plug" up to the colon, eyes removed and
all blood removed with, again, no vascular collapse.  From some of the
evidence it is apparent that this surgery is accomplished, in most
cases, while the victim, animal or human, is still alive.

The various parts of the body are taken to various underground
laboratories, one of which is known to be near the small New Mexico
town of Dulce.  This jointly occupied (CIA-Alien) facility has been
described as enormous, with huge tiled walls that "go on forever".
Witnesses have reported huge vats filled with amber liquid with parts
of human bodies being stirred inside.

After the initial agreement, Groom Lake, one of this nations most
secret test centers, was closed for a period of about a year, sometime
between about 1972 and 1974, and a huge underground facility was
constructed for and with the help of the EBE's.  The "bargained for"
technology was set in place but could only be operated by the EBE's
themselves.  Needless to say, the advanced technology could not be
used against the EBE's themselves, even if needed.

During the period between 1979 and 1983 it became increasingly obvious
to MJ-12 that things were not going as planned.  It became known that
many more people (in the thousands) were being abducted than were
listed on the official abduction lists.  In addition it became obvious
that some, not all, but some of the nation's missing children had been
used for secretions and other parts required by the aliens.

In 1979 there was an altercation of sorts at the Dulce laboratory.  A
special armed forces unit was called in to try and free a number of
our people trapped in the facility, who had become aware of what was
really going on.  According to one source, 66 of the soldiers were
killed and our people were not freed.

By 1984, MJ-12 must have been in stark terror at the mistake they had
made in dealing with the EBE's.  They had subtly promoted "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind" and "E.T." to get the public used to
"odd looking" aliens that were compassionate, benevolent and very much
our "space brothers".  MJ-12 "sold" the EBE's to the public, and were
now faced with the fact that quite the opposite was true.  In
addition, a plan was formulated in 1968 to make the public aware of
the existence of aliens on earth over the next 20 years to be
culminated with several documentaries to be released during 1985-1987
period of time.  These documentaries would explain the history and
intentions of the EBE's.  The discovery of the "Grand Deception" put
the entire plans, hopes and dreams of MJ-12 into utter confusion and
panic.

Meeting at the "Country Club", a remote lodge with private golf
course, comfortable sleeping and working quarters, and its own private
airstrip built by and exclusively for the members of MJ-12, it was a
factional fight of what to do now.  Part of MJ-12 wanted to confess
the whole scheme and shambles it had become to the public, beg their
forgiveness and ask for their support.  The other part (and majority)
of MJ-12 argued that there was no way they could do that, that the
situation was untenable and there was no use in exciting the public
with the "horrible truth" and that the best plan was to continue the
development of a weapon that could be used against the EBE's under the
guise of "SDI", the Strategic Defense Initiative, which had nothing
whatsoever to do with a defense for inbound Russian nuclear missiles.
As these words are being written, Dr. Edward Teller, "father" of the
H-Bomb is personally in the test tunnels of the Nevada Test Site,
driving his workers and associates in the words of one, "like a man
possessed".  And well he should, for Dr. Teller is a member of MJ-12
along with Dr. Kissenger, Admiral Bobby Inman, and possibly Admiral
Poindexter, to name a few of the current members of MJ-12.

Before the "Grand Deception" was discovered and according to a
meticulous plan of metered release of information to the public,
several documentaries and video tapes were made.  William Moore, a
Burbank, California, based UFO researcher who wrote "The Roswell
Incident", a book published in 1980 that detailed the crash, recovery
and subsequent cover-up of a UFO with 4 alien bodies, has a video tape
of 2 newsmen interviewing a military officer associated with MJ-12.
This military officer answers questions relating to the history of MJ-
12 and the cover-up, the recovery of a number of flying saucers and
the existence of a live alien (one of 3 living aliens captured and
designated, or named, EBE-1, EBE-2, and EBE-3, being held in a
facility designated as YY-II at Los Alamos, New Mexico.  The only
other facility of this type, which is electromagnetically secure, is
at Edwards Air Force Base in Mojave, California).  The officer names
those previously mentioned plus a few others:  Harold Brown, Richard
Helms, Gen. Vernon Walters, JPL's Dr. Lew Allen and Dr. Theodore von
Karman, to name a few of the current and past members of MJ-12.

The officer also relates the fact that the EBE's claim to have created
Christ.  The EBE's have a type of recording device that has recorded
all of Earth's history and can display it in the form of a hologram.
This hologram can be filmed but because of the way holograms work does
not come out very clear on movie film or video tape.  The crucifixion
of Christ on the Mount of Olives has allegedly been put on film to
show the public.  The EBE's claim to have created Christ, which, in
view of the "Grand Deception", could be an effort to disrupt
traditional values for undetermined reasons.

Another video tape allegedly in existence is an interview with an EBE.
Since EBE's communicate telepathically, an Air Force Colonel serves as
an interpreter.  Just before the recent stock market correction in
October of 1987, several newsmen, including Bill Moore, had been
invited to Washington, D.C., to personally film the EBE in a similar
type interview, and distribute the film to the public.  Apparently,
because of the correction in the market, it was felt the timing was
not propitious.  In any case, it certainly seems like an odd method to
inform the public of extraterrestrials, but it would be in keeping
with the actions of a panicked organization who at this point in time
doesn't know which way to turn.

Moore is also in possession of more Aquarius documents, a few pages of
which leaked out several years ago and detailed the supersecret NSA
project which had been denied by them until just recently.  In a
letter to Senator John Glenn, NSA's Director of Policy, Julia B.
Wetzel, wrote, "Apparently there is or was an Air Force project with
that name (Aquarius) which dealt with UFO's.  Coincidently, there is
also an NSA project by that name." NSA's project Aquarius deals
specifically with the "communications with the aliens" (the EBE's).
Within the Aquarius program was project "Snowbird", a project to test-
fly a recovered alien aircraft at Groom Lake, Nevada.  This project
continues today at that location.  In the words of an individual who
works at Groom Lake, "Our people are much better at taking things
apart than they are at putting them back together."

Moore, who claims he has a contact with MJ-12, feels that they have
been stringing him along, slipping him documents and providing him
leads, promising to go public with some of the information on
extraterrestrials by the end of 1987.

Certain of Moore's statements lead one to believe that Moore himself
is a government agent working for MJ-12, not to be strung along, but
string along ever hopeful UFOlogists that the truth is just around the
corner.  Consider:

1.   Moore states emphatically that he is not a government agent,
although when Lee Graham (a Southern California based UFOlogist) was
investigated by DIS (Defense Investigative Service) for possession of
classified documents received from Moore, Moore himself was not.

2.   Moore states emphatically that the cattle mutilations of 1973-
1983 were a hoax by Linda Howe (producer of "A Strange Harvest") to
create publicity for herself.  He cites the book "Mute Evidence" as
the bottom line of the hoax.  "Mute Evidence" was a government
sponsored book to explain the mutilations in conventional terms.

3.   Moore states that the U.S.A.F. Academy physics book,
"Introductory Space Science", vol. II chapter 13, entitled
"Unidentified Flying Objects", which describes four of the most
commonly seen aliens (one of which is the EBE) was written by Lt. Col.
Edward R. Therkelson and Major Donald B. Carpenter, Air Force
personnel who did not know what they were talking about and were
merely siting "crackpot" references.  He, Moore, states that the book
was withdrawn to excise the chapter.

If the government felt they were being forced to acknowledge the
existence of aliens on Earth because of the overwhelming evidence such
as the October and November sightings in Wytheville, Va., and recently
released books such as "Night Siege" (Hynek, J. Allen;Imbrogno,
Phillip J.;Pratt, Bob:Night Siege, Ballantine Books, Random House, New
York), and taking into consideration the "grand deception" and
obviously hostile intentions of the EBE's, it might be expedient for
MJ-12 to admit the EBE's but conceal the information on the
mutilations and abductions.  If MJ-12 and Moore were in some kind of
agreement then it would be beneficial to Moore to toe the party line.
For example, MJ-12 would say... "here are some more genuine
documents... but remember... no talking about the mutilations or
abductions".  This would be beneficial to Moore as it would supply the
evidence to support his theory that E.T.'s exist but deny the truths
about the E.T.'s.  However, if Moore was indeed working for MJ-12, he
would follow the party line anyway... admitting the E.T.'s but pooh
poohing the mutilations and abductions.  If working alone, Moore might
not even be aware of the "grand deception".

Time will tell.  It is possible that Moore will go ahead and release
the video interview with the military officer around the first of the
year, as he has promised.  From MJ-12's point of view, the public
would be exposed to the information without really having to believe
it because Moore is essentially not as credible a source as, say, the
President of the United States.  After a few months of digestion and
discussion, a more credible source could emerge with a statement that,
"yes, in fact the interview was essentially factual".  This scenario
would cushion somewhat the blow to the public.  If, however, Moore
does not release the tape by, say, February 1 of 1988, but comes
instead with a story similar to:  "MJ-12 has informed me that they are
definitely planning a release of all information by October of 88.  I
have seen the plan and have seen the guarantee that this will happen,
so I have decided to withhold the release of my video tape at this
time as it may cause some problems with MJ-12's plans." This would in
effect buy more time for MJ-12 and time is what they desperately need.

Now you ask, "Why haven't I heard about any of this?" Who do you think
you would hear it from?  Dan Rather?  Tom Brokaw?  Sam Donaldson?
Wrong.  These people just read the news, they don't find it.  They
have ladies who call and interview witnesses and verify statements on
stories coming over the wire (either AP or UPI).  It's not like Dan
Rather would go down to Wytheville, Virginia, and dig into why there
were 4 THOUSAND reported sightings in October and November of 1987.
Better that Tom Brokaw or someone else should risk their credibility
on this type of story.  Tom Brokaw?  Tom wants Sam Donaldson to risk
his credibility.  No one, but no one, is going to risk their neck on
such outlandish ideas, regardless of how many people report sightings
of 900 foot objects running them off the road.  In the case of the
Wytheville sightings, dozens of vans with NASA lettered on the side
failed to interest newsmen.  And those that asked questions were
informed that NASA was doing a weather survey.

Well then, you ask, what about our scientists?  What about Carl Sagan?
Isaac Asimov?  Arthur C. Clarke?  Wouldn't they have known?  If Carl
Sagan knows then he is committing a great fraud through the
solicitation of memberships in the Planetary Society, "to search for
extraterrestrial intelligence".  Another charade into which the U.S.
Government dumps million of dollar every year is the radio telescope
in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, operated by Cornell University with - guess
who? - Carl Sagan.  Cornell is ostensibly searching for signals from
Outer Space, a sign maybe, that somebody is out there.  It is hard to
believe that relatively intelligent astronomers like Sagan could be so
ignorant.

What about Isaac Asimov?  Surely the most prolific science fiction
writer of all time would have guessed by now that there must be an
enormous cover-up?  Maybe, but if he knows he's not saying.  Perhaps
he's afraid that "Foundation" and "Empire" will turn out to be
inaccurate.

What about Arthur C. Clarke?  Surely the most technically accurate of
Science Fiction writers with very close ties to NASA would have at
least a hint of what's really going on.  Again, if so he isn't
talking.  In a recent Science Fiction survey, Clarke estimates that
contact with extraterrestrial intelligent life would not occur before
the 21st Century.

If the government won't tell us the truth and the major networks won't
even give it serious consideration, then what is the big picture,
anyway?  Are the EBE's, having done a hundred thousand or more
abductions (possibly millions worldwide), built an untold number of
secret underground bases (Groom Lake, Nevada; Sunspot, Datil, Roswell,
and Pine Town, New Mexico, just to name a few) getting ready to return
to wherever they came from?  Or, form the obvious preparations are we
to assume that they are getting ready for a big move?  Or is the more
sinister and most probable situation that the invasion is essentially
complete and it is all over but the screaming?

A well planned invasion of Earth for it's resources and benefits would
not begin with mass landings of ray-gun equipped aliens.  A properly
planned and executed invasion by a civilization thousands and probably
hundreds of thousands of years in advance of us would most likely be
complete before even a handful of people (say 12?) realized what was
happening.  No fuss, no muss.  The best advice I can give you is this:
Next time you see a flying saucer and are awed by its obvious display
of technology and gorgeous lights of pure color - RUN LIKE HELL!

--   end --

                                       