                               THE CONTROLLERS:
                     A New Hypothesis of Alien Abduction

                                      by
                                Martin Cannon


                               I. Introduction

   One wag has dubbed the problem "Terra and the Pirates."
   The pirates, ostensibly, are marauders from another solar system; their
victims include a growing number of troubled human beings who insist that
they've been shanghaied by these otherworldly visitors.  An outlandish
scenario -- yet through the works of such authors as Budd Hopkins[1] and
Whitley Strieber[2], the "alien abduction" syndrome has seized the public
imagination.  Indeed, tales of UFO contact threaten to lapse into fashion-
ability, even though, as I have elsewhere noted[3], they may still inflict a
formidable social price upon the claimant.
   Some time ago, I began to research these claims, concentrating my studies
on the social and political environment surrounding these events.  As I
studied, the project grew and its scope widened.  Indeed, I began to feel as
though I'd gone digging through familiar terrain only to unearth Gomorrah.
   These excavations may have disgorged a solution.


THE PROBLEM

   Among ufologists, the term "abduction" has come to refer to an infinitely-
confounding experience, or matrix of experiences, shared by a dizzying number
of individuals, who claim that travellers from the stars have scooped them out
of their beds, or snatched them from their cars, and subjected them to
interrogations, quasi-medical examinations, and "instruction" periods.
Usually, these sessions are said to occur within alien spacecraft; frequently,
the stories include terrifying details reminiscent of the tortures inflicted
in Germany's death camps.  The abductees often (though not always) lose all
memory of these events;  they find themselves back in their cars or beds,
unable to account for hours of "missing time."  Hypnosis, or some other
trigger, can bring back these haunted hours in an explosion of recollection --
and as the smoke clears, an abductee will often spot a trail of similar
experiences, stretching all the way back to childhood.
   Perhaps the oddest fact of these odd tales: Many abductees, for all their
vividly-recollected agonies, claim to love their alien tormentors.  That's
the word I've heard repeatedly: love.
   Within the community of "scientific ufologists" -- those lonely, all-too
little-heard advocates of reasonable and open-minded debate on matters
saucerological -- these claims have elicited cautious interest and a commend-
able restraint from conclusion-hopping.  Outside the higher realms of
scientific ufology, the situation is, alas, quite different.  In the popular
press, in both the "straight" and sensationalist media, within that
journalistic realm where issues are defined and public opinion solidified
(despite a frequently superficial approach to matters of evidence and
investigation) abduction scenarios have elicited two basic reactions: that
of the Believer and the Skeptic.
   The Believers -- and here we should note that "Believers" and "abductees"
are two groups whose memberships overlap but are in no way congruent --
accept such stories at face value.  They accept, despite the seeming
absurdity of these tales, the internal contradictions, the askew logic of
narrative construction, the severe discontinuity of emotional response to the
actions described.  The Believers believe, despite reports that their beloved
"space brothers" use vile and inhuman tactics of medical examination --
senseless procedures most of us (and certainly the vanguard of an advanced
race) would be ashamed to inflict on an animal.  The Believers believe,
despite the difficulty of reconciling these unsettling tales with their own
deliriums of benevolent off-worlders.
   Occasionally, the rough notes of a rationalization are offered:  "The
aliens don't know what they are doing," we hear; or "Some aliens are bad."
Yet the Believers confound their own reasoning when they insist on ascribing
the wisdom of the ages and the beneficence of the angels to their beloved
visitors.  The aliens allegedly know enough about our society to go about
their business undetected by the local authorities and the general public;
they communicate with the abductees in human tongue; they concern themselves
with details of the percipients' innermost lives -- yet they remain so
ignorant of our culture as to be unaware of the basic moral precepts concerning
the dignity of the individual and the right to self-determination.  Such
dichotomies don't bother the Believers; they are the faithful, and faith is
assumed to have its mysteries.  SANCTA SIMPLICITAS.
   Conversely, the Skeptics dismiss these stories out of hand.  They dismiss,
despite the intriguing confirmatory details: the multiple witness events,
the physical traces left by the ufonauts, the scars and implants left on the
abductees.  The skeptics scoff, though the abductees tell stories similar in
detail -- even certain tiny details, not known to the general public.
   Philip Klass is a debunker who, through his appearances on such television
programs as NOVA and NIGHTLINE, has been in a position to affect much of the
public debate on UFOs.  In his interesting but poorly-documented work on
abductions[4], Klass claims that "abduction" is a psychological disease,
spread by those who write about it.  This argument exactly resembles the
professional press-basher's frequent assertion that terrorism metastasizes
through media exposure.  Yet for all the millions of words expectorated by
newsfolk on the subject of terrorism, terrorist actions remain quite rare,
as any statistician (though few politicians) will admit, and verifiable
linkage between crimes and their coverage remains to be found.  For that
matter, there have been books -- bestsellers, even -- on unicorns and gnomes.
People who claim to see those creatures are few.  Abductees are plentiful.
   Both Believer and Skeptic, in my opinion, miss the real story.  Both make
the same mistake:  They connect the abduction phenomenon to the forty-year
history of UFO sightings, and they apply their prejudices about the latter
to the controversy about the former.
   At first sight, the link seems natural.  Shouldn't our thoughts about
UFOs color our thoughts about UFO abductions?
   NO.
   They may well be separate issues.  Or, rather, they are connected only
in this:  The myth of the UFO has provided an effective cover story for an
entirely different sort of mystery.  Remove yourself from the Believer/Skeptic
dialectic, and you will see the third alternative.
   As we examine this alternative, we will, of necessity, stray far from the
saucers.  We must turn our face from the paranormal and concentrate on the
occult -- if, by "occult," we mean SECRET.
   I posit that the abductees HAVE been abducted.  Yet they are also spewing
fantasy -- or, more precisely, they have been given a set of lies to repeat
and believe.  If my hypothesis proves true, then we must accept the following:
The kidnapping is real.  The fear is real.  The pain is real.  The instruction
is real.  But the little grey men from Zeti Reticuli are NOT real; they are
constructs, Halloween masks meant to disguise the real faces of the con-
trollers.  The abductors may not be visitors from Beyond; rather, they may be
a symptom of the carcinoma which blackens our body politic.
   The fault lies not in our stars, but in ourselves.


THE HYPOTHESIS

   Substantial evidence exists linking members of this country's intelligence
community (including the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Advanvced
Research Projects Agency, and the Office of Naval Intelligence) with the
esoteric technology of MIND CONTROL.  For decades, "spy-chiatrists" working
behind the scenes -- on college campuses, in CIA-sponsored institutes, and
(most heinously) in prisons -- have experimented with the erasure of memory,
hypnotic resistance to torture, truth serums, post-hypnotic suggestion, rapid
induction of hypnosis, electronic stimulation of the brain, non-ionizing
radiation, microwave induction of intracerebral "voices," and a host of even
more disturbing technologies.  Some of the projects exploring these areas were
ARTICHOKE, BLUEBIRD, PANDORA, MKDELTA, MKSEARCH and the infamous MKULTRA.
   I have read nearly every available book on these projects, as well as the
relevant congressional testimony[5].  I have also spent much time in university
libraries researching relevant articles, contacting other researchers (who have
graciously allowed me access to their files), and conducting interviews.
Moreover, I traveled to Washington, DC to review the files John Marks compiled
when he wrote THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE"[6].  These files
include some 20,000 pages of CIA and Defense Department documents, interviews,
scientific articles, letters, etc.  The views presented here are the result of
extensive and ongoing research.
   As a result of this research, I have come to the following conclusions:
   1.  Although misleading (and occasionally perjured) testimony before
Congress indicated that the CIA's "brainwashing" efforts met with little
success[7], striking advances were, in fact, made in this field.  As CIA
veteran Miles Copeland once admitted to a reporter, "The congressional
subcommittee which went into this sort of thing got only the barest glimpse."
[8]
   2.  Clandestine research into thought manipulation has NOT stopped, despite
CIA protestations that it no longer sponsors such studies.  Victor Marchetti,
14-year veteran of the CIA and author of the renown expose, THE CIA AND THE
CULT OF INTELLIGENCE, confirmed in a 1977 interview that the mind control
research continues, and that CIA claims to the contrary are a "cover story."[9]
   3.  The Central Intelligence Agency was not the only government agency
involved in this research[10].  Indeed, many branches of our government took
part in these studies -- including NASA, the Atomic Energy Commission, as well
as all branches of the Defense Department.
   To these conclusions I would append the following -- NOT as firmly-
established historical fact, but as a working hypothesis and grounds for
investigation:
   4.  The "UFO abduction" phenomenon MIGHT be a continuation of clandestine
mind control operations.
   I recognize the difficulties this thesis might present to those readers
emotionally wedded to the extraterrestrial hypothesis, or to those whose
political WELTANSHAUUNG disallows any such suspicions.  Still, the open-
minded student of abductions should consider the possibilities.  Certainly,
we are not being narrow-minded if we ask researchers to exhaust ALL terrestrial
explanations before looking heavenward.
   Granted, this particular explanation may, at first, seem as bizarre as the
phenomenon itself.  But I invite the skeptical reader to examine the work of
George Estabrooks, a seminal theorist on the use of hypnosis in warfare, and
a veteran of Project MKULTRA.  Estabrooks once amused himself during a party
by covertly hypnotizing two friends, who were led to believe that the Prime
Minister of England had just arrived; Estabrooks' victims spent an hour
conversing with, and even serving drinks to, the esteemed visitor[11].  For
ufologists, this incident raises an inescapable question: If the Mesmeric arts
can successfully evoke a non-existent Prime Minister, why can't a represent-
ative from the Pleiades be similarly induced?
   But there is much more to the present day technology of mind control than
mere hypnosis -- and many good reasons to suspect that UFO abduction accounts
are an artifact of continuing brainwashing/behavior modification experiments.
Moreover, I intend to demonstrate that, by using UFO mythology as a cover
story, the experimenters may have solved the major problem with the work
conducted in the 1950s -- "the disposal problem," i.e., the question of
"What do we do with the victims?"
   If, in these pages, I seem to stray from the subject of the saucers, I plead
for patience.  Before I attempt to link UFO abductions with mind control
experiments, I must first show that this technology EXISTS.  Much of the
forthcoming is an introduction to the topic of mind control -- what it is, and
how it works.

                              II. The Technology

A BRIEF OVERVIEW

   In the early days of World War II, George Estabrooks, of Colgate University,
wrote to the Department of War, describing in breathless terms the possible
uses of hypnosis in warfare[12].  The Army was intrigued; Estabrooks had a
job.  The true history of Estabrooks' wartime collaboration with the CID,
FBI[13] and other agencies may never be told: After the war, he burned his
diary pages covering the years 1940-45, and thereafter avoided discussing his
continuing government work with anyone, even close members of the family[14].
Occasionally, he strongly intimated that his work involved the creation of
hypno-programmed couriers and hypnotically-induced split personalities, but
whether he succeeded in these areas remains a controversial point.  Neverthe-
less, the eccentric and flamboyant Estabrooks remains a pivotal figure in the
early history of clandestine behavioral research.
   Which is not to say that he worked alone.  World War II was the first
conflict in which the human brain became a field of battle, where invading
forces were led by the most notable names in psychology and pharmacology.  On
both sides, the war spurred furious efforts to create a "truth drug" for use
in interrogating prisoners.  General William "Wild Bill" Donovan, director of
the OSS, tasked his crack team -- including Dr. Winifred Overhulser, Dr.
Edward Strecker, Harry J. Anslinger and George White -- to modify human
perception and behavior through chemical means; their "medicine cabinet"
included scopolamine, peyote, barbiturates, mescaline, and marijuana.  (This
research had its amusing side: Donovan's "psychic warriors" conducted many
extensive and expensive trials before deciding that the best method of
administering tetrahydrocannibinol, the active ingredient in marijuana, was
via the cigarette.  Any jazz musician could have told them as much[15].)
   Simultaneously, the notorious NAZI doctors at Dachau experimented with
mescaline as a means of eliminating the victim's will to resist.  Jews, slavs,
gypsies, and other "Untermenschen" in the camp were surreptitiously slipped the
drug; later, mescaline was combined with hypnosis[16].  The results of these
tests were made available to the United States after the War.  [cf. Operation
PAPERCLIP, which transferred thousands of German and Japanese intelligence
researchers directly into the U.S. intelligence community.  "Our Germans are
BETTER than their Germans!" - DR. STRANGELOVE   -jpg]
   In 1947, the Navy conducted the first known post-war mind control program,
Project CHAPTER, which continued the drug experiments.  Decades later,
journalists and investigators still haven't uncovered much information about
this project -- or, indeed, about any of the military's other excursions into
this field.  We know that the Army eventually founded operations THIRD CHANCE
and DERBY HAT; other project names remain mysterious, though the existence of
these programs is unquestionable.  [?  -jpg]
   The newly-formed CIA plunged into this cesspool in 1950, with Project
BLUEBIRD, rechristened ARTICHOKE in 1951.  To establish a "cover story" for
this research, the CIA funded a propaganda effort designed to convince the
world that the Communist Bloc had devised insidious new methods of re-shaping
the human will; the CIA's own efforts could therefore, if exposed, be explained
as an attempt to "catch up" with Soviet and Chinese work.  The primary promoter
of this "line" was one Edward Hunter, a CIA contract employee operating under-
cover as a journalist, and, later, a prominent member of the John Birch
society.  (Hunter was an OSS veteran of the China theatre -- the same spawning
grounds which produced Richard Helms, Howard Hunt, Mitch WerBell, Fred
Chrisman, Paul Helliwell and a host of other noteworthies who came to
dominate that strange land where the worlds of intelligence and right-wing
extremism meet[17].)  Hunter offered "brainwashing" as the explanation for the
numerous confessions signed by American prisoners of war during the Korean War
and (generally) UN-recanted upon the prisoners' repatriation.  These confes-
sions alleged that the United States used germ warfare in the Korean conflict,
a claim which the American public of the time found impossible to accept.
[Lee Harvey Oswald, acting alone, murdered President Kennedy.  -jpg]  Many
years later, however, investigative reporters discovered that Japan's germ
warfare specialists (who had wreaked incalculable terror on the conquered
Chinese during WWII) had been mustered into the American national security
apparat -- and that the knowledge gleaned from Japan's horrifying germ
warfare experiments probably WAS used in Korea, just as the "brainwashed"
soldiers had indicated[18].  Thus, we now know that the entire brainwashing
scare of the 1950s constituted a CIA hoax perpetrated upon the American
public: CIA deputy director Richard Helms admitted as much when, in 1963,
he told the Warren Commission that Soviet mind control research consistently
lagged years behind American efforts[19].
   When the CIA's mind control program was transferred from the Office of
Security to the Technical Services Staff (TSS) in 1953, the name changed
again -- to MKULTRA[20].  Many consider this wide-ranging "octopus" project --
whose tentacles twined through the corridors of numerous universities and
around the necks of an army of scientists -- the most ominous operation in
CIA's catalogue of atrocity.  Through MKULTRA, the Agency created an umbrella
program of a positively Joycean scope, designed to ferret out all possible
means of invading what George Orwell once called "the space between our ears"
(Later still, in 1962, mind control research was transferred to the Office
of Research and Development; project cryptonyms remain unrevealed[21].)
   What was studied?  Everything -- including hypnosis, conditioning, sensory
deprivation, drugs, religious cults, microwaves, psychosurgery, brain implants,
and even ESP.  When MKULTRA "leaked" to the public during the great CIA
investigations of the 1970s, public attention focused most heavily on drug
experimentation and the work with ESP[22].  Mystery still shrouds another area
of study, the area which seems to have most interested ORD: psychoelectronics.
This research may prove key to our understanding of the UFO abduction
phenomenon.


IMPLANTS

   Perhaps the most interesting pieces of evidence surrounding the abduction
phenomenon are the intracerebral implants allegedly visible in the X-rays and
MRI scans of many abductees[23].  Indeed, abductees often describe operations
in which needles are inserted into the brain; more frequently still, they
report implantation of foreign objects through the sinus cavities.  Many
abduction specialists assume that these intracranial incursions must be the
handiwork of scientists from the stars.  Unfortunately, these researchers
have failed to familiarize themselves with certain little-heralded advances
in terrestrial technology.
   The abductees' implants strongly suggest a technological lineage which can
be traced to a device known as a "stimoceiver," invented in the late '50s-
early '60s by a neuroscientist named Jose "Bob" Delgado.  The stimoceiver is a
miniature depth electrode which can receive and transmit electronic signals
over FM radio waves.  By stimulating a correctly-positioned stimoceiver, an
outside operator can wield a surprising degree of control over the subject's
responses.
   The most famous example of the stimoceiver in action occurred in a Madrid
bull ring.  Delgado "wired" the bull before stepping into the ring, entirely
unprotected.  Furious for gore, the bull charged toward the doctor -- then
stopped, just before reaching him.  The technician-turned-toreador had halted
the animal by simply pushing a button on a black BoX, held in the hand[24].
   Delgado's PHYSICAL CONTROL OF THE MIND: TOWARD A PSYCHOCIVILISED SOCIETY[25]
remains the sole, full-length, popularly-written work on intracerebral implants
and electronic stimulation of the brain (ESB).  (The book's ominous title and
unconvincing philosophical rationales for mass mind control prompted an
unfavorable public reaction -- which may have deterred other researchers from
publishing on this theme for a general audience.)  While subsequent work has
long since superceded the techniques described in this book, Delgado's
achievements were seminal.  His animal and human experiments clearly demon-
strate that the experimenter can electronically induce emotions and behavior:
Under certain conditions, the extremes of temperament -- rage, lust, fatigue,
etc. -- can be elicited by an outside operator as easily as an organist might
call forth a C-major chord.
   Delgado writes: "Radio stimulation of different points in the amygdala and
hippocampus in the four patients produced a variety of effects, including
pleasant sensations, elation, deep, thoughtful concentration, odd feelings,
super relaxation, colored visions, and other responses."[26]  The evocative
phrase "colored vision" clearly indicates remotely-induced hallucination; we
will detail later how these hallucinations may be "controlled" by an outside
operator.
   Speaking in 1966 -- and reflecting research undertaken years previous --
Delgado asserted that his experiments "support the distasteful conclusion that
motion, emotion, and behavior can be directed by electrical forces and that
humans can be controlled like robots by push buttons."[27]  He even prophesied
a day when brain control could be turned over to non-human operators, by
establishing two-way radio communication between the implanted brain and a
computer[28].
   Of one experimental subject, Delgado notes that "the patient expressed the
successive sensations of fainting, fright and floating around.  These
'floating' feelings were repeatedly evoked on different days by stimulation
of the same point..."[29]  Ufologists may recognize the similarity of this
sequence of events to abductee reports of the opening minutes of their
experiences[30].  Under subsequent hypnosis, the abductee could be instructed
to misremember the cause of this floating sensation.
   In a fascinating series of experiments, Delgado attached the stimoceiver
to the tympanic membrane, thereby transforming the ear into a sort of micro-
phone.  An assistant would whisper "How are you?" into the ear of a suitably
"fixed" cat, and Delgado could hear the words over a loudspeaker in the next
room.  The application of this technology to the spy trade should be readily
apparent.  According to Victor Marchetti, The Agency once attempted a highly-
sophisticated extension of this basic idea, in which radio implants were
attached to a cat's cochlea, to facilitate the pinpointing of specific
conversations, freed from extraneous surrounding noises[31].  Such "advances"
exacerbate the already-imposing level of Twentieth-Century paranoia: Not only
can our phones be tapped and mail checked, but even TABBY may be spying on us!
   Yet the ramifications of this technology may go even deeper than Marchetti
indicates.  I presume that if a suitably-wired subject's inner ear can be made
into a microphone, it can also be made into a loudspeaker -- one possible
explanation for the "voices" heard by abductees[32].  Indeed, I have personally
viewed a strange, opalescent implant within the ear canal of an abductee.  I
see no reason to ascribe this device to alien intrusion -- more than likely,
the "intruders" in this case were the technological inheritors of the Delgado
legacy.  Indeed, not many years after Delgado's experiments with the cat,
Ralph Schwitzgebel devised a "bug-in-the-ear" via which the therapist -- odd
term, under the circumstances -- can communicate with his subject[33].
   Other researchers have made notable contributions to this field.
   Robert G. "Bob" Heath, of Tulane University, who has implanted as many as
125
electrodes in his subjects, achieved his greatest notoriety by attempting to
"cure" homosexuality through ESB.  In his experiments, he discovered that he
could control his patients' memory, (a feat which, applied in the ufological
context, may account for the phenomenon of "missing time"); he could also
induce sexual arousal, fear, pleasure, and hallucinations[34].
   Heath and another researcher, James Olds[35], have independently illustrated
that areas of the brain in and near the hypothalamus have, when electronically
stimulated, what has been described as "rewarding" and "aversive" effects.
Both animals and men, when given the means to induce their own ESB of the
brain's pleasure centers, will stimulate themselves at a tremendous rate,
ignoring such basic drives as hunger and thirst[36].  (Using fixed electrodes
of his own invention, John C. Lilly had accomplished similar effects in the
early 1950s[37].)  Anyone who has studied the abduction phenomenon will find
himself on familiar territory here, for the abductee accounts are replete with
stories of bewildering and inappropriate sexual response countered by extremely
painful stimuli -- operant conditioning, at its most extreme, and most
insidious, for here we see a form of conditioning in which the manipulator
renders himself invisible.  Indeed, B.F. Skinner-esque aversive therapy,
remotely appiled, was Heath's prescription for "healing" homosexuality[38].
   Ralph Schwitzgebel and his brother Robert have produced a panoply of
devices for tracking individuals over long ranges; they may be considered
the creators of the "electronic house arrest" devices recently approved by
the courts[39].  Schwitzgebel devices could be used for tracking all the
physical and neurological signs of a "patient" within a quarter of a mile[40],
thereby lifting the distance limitations which restricted Delgado.
   In Ralph Schwitzgebel's initial work, application of this technology to
ESB seems to have been limited to cumbersome brain implants with protruding
wires.  But the technology was soon miniaturized, and a scheme was proposed
whereby radio receivers would be mounted on utility poles throughout a
given city, thereby providing 24-hour-a-day monitoring capability[41].  Like
Heath, Schwitzgebel was much exercised about homosexuality and the use of
intracranial devices to combat sexual deviation.  But he has also spoken
ominously about applying his devices to "socially troublesome persons"...
which, of course, could mean anyone[42].
   Bryan Robinson, of the Yerkes primate laboratory has conducted fascinating
simian research on the use of remote ESB in a social context.  He could cause
mothers to ignore their offspring, despite the babies' cries.  He could turn
submission into dominance, and vice-versa[43].
   Perhaps the most disturbing wanderer into this mind-field is Joseph A.
Meyer, of the National Security Agency, the most formidable and secretive
component of America's national security complex.  Meyer has proposed implant-
ing rougly half of all Americans arrested -- not necessarily convicted --
of any crime; the numbers of "subscribers" (his euphemism) would run into the
tens of millions.  "Subscribers" could be monitored continually by computer
wherever they went.  Meyer, who has carefully worked out the economics of his
mass-implantation system, asserts that taxpayer liability should be reduced
by forcing subscribers to "rent" the implant from the State.  Implants are
cheaper and more efficient than police, Meyer suggests, since the call to crime
is relentless for the poor "urban dweller" -- who, this spook-scientist admits
in a surprisingly candid aside, is fundamentally unnecessary to a post-
industrial economy.  "Urban dweller" may be another of Meyer's euphemisms: He
uses New York's Harlem as his model community in working out the details of his
mind-management system[44].


ABDUCTEE IMPLANTS

   If we are to take seriously abductee accounts of brain implants, we must
consider the possibility that the implanters, properly perceived, DON'T look
much like the "greys" pictured on Strieber's dustjackets.  Instead, the
visitors may resemble Dr. Meyer and his brethren.  We would thus have an
explanation for both the reports of abductee brain implants and, as we shall
see, the "scoop marks" and other scars visible on other parts of the abductees'
bodies.  We would also have an explanation for the reports of individuals
suffering personality change after contact with the UFO phenomenon.
   Skeptics might counter that the time factor of UFO abductions disallows
this possibility.  If estimates of "missing time" are correct, the abductions
rarely take longer than one-to-three hours.  Wouldn't a brain surgeon,
operating under less-than-ideal conditions (perhaps in a mobile unit) need
more time?
   NO -- not if we accept the claims of a Florida doctor named Daniel Man.
He recently proposed a draconian solution to the overblown "missing children
problem," by suggesting a program wherein America's youngsters would be
implanted with tiny transmitters in order to track the children continuously.
Man brags that the operation can be done right in the office -- and would take
less than 20 minutes[45].
   Conceivably, it might take a tad longer in the field.


A QUESTION OF TIMING

   The history of brain implantation, as gleaned from the open literature, is
certainly disquieting.  Yet this history has almost certainly been censored,
and the dates manipulated in a nigh-Orwellian fashion.  When dealing with
research funded by the engines of national security, one can never know the
true origin date of any individual scientific advance.  However, if we listen
carefully to the scientists who have pioneered this research, we may hear
whispers, faint but unmistakable, hinting that remotely-applied ESB originated
earlier than published studies would indicate.
   In his autobiography THE SCIENTIST, John C. Lilly (who would later achieve
a cultish reknown for his work with dolphins, drugs and sensory deprivation)
records a conversation he had with the director of the National Institute
of Mental Health -- in 1953.  The director asked Lilly to brief the CIA, FBI,
NSA and the various military intelligence services on his work using electrodes
to stimulate directly the pleasure and pain centers of the brain.  Lilly
refused, noting, in his reply:

            Dr. Antoine Remond, using our techniques in Paris, has
         demonstrated that this method of stimulation of the brain
         can be applied to the human without the help of the neuro-
         surgeon; he is doing it in his office in Paris without neuro-
         surgical supervision.  This means that anybody with the proper
         apparatus can carry this out on a person covertly, with no
         external signs that electrodes have been used on that person.
         I feel that if this technique got into the hands of a secret
         agency, they would have total control over a human being and
         be able to change his beliefs extremely quickly, leaving
         little evidence of what they had done[46].

   Lilly's assertion of the moral high ground here is interesting.  Despite
his avowed phobia against secrecy, a careful reading of THE SCIENTIST reveals
that he continued to do work useful to this country's national security appar-
atus. His sensory deprivation experiments expanded upon the work of ARTICHOKE's
Maitland Baldwin, and even his dolphin research has -- perhaps inadvertently
proved useful in naval warfare[47].  One should note that Lilly's work on
monkeys carried a "secret" classification, and that NIMH was a common CIA
funding conduit[48].
   But the most important aspect of Lilly's statement is its date.  1953?
How far back does radio-controlled ESB go?  Alas, I have not yet seen Remond's
work -- if it is available in the open literature.  In the documents made
available to Marks, the earliest reference to remotely-applied ESB is a 1959
financial document pertaining to MKULTRA subproject 94.  The general subproject
descriptions sent to the CIA's financial department rarely contain much
information, and rarely change from year to year, leaving us little idea as to
when this subproject began.
   Unfortunately, even the Freedom of Information Act couldn't pry loose much
information on electronic mind control techniques, though we know a great deal
of study was done in these areas.  We have, for example, only four pages on
subproject 94 -- by comparison, a veritable flood of documents were released on
the use of drugs in mind control.  (Whenever an author tells us that MKULTRA
met with little success, the reference is to drug testing.)  On this point, I
must criticize John Marks: His book never mentions that roughly 20-25 percent
of the  subprojects are "dark" -- i.e., little or no information was ever made
available, despite lawyers and FOIA requests.  Marks seems to feel that the
only information worth having is the information he received.  We know,
however, that research into psychoelectronics was extensive indeed, statements
of project goals dating from ARTICHOKE and BLUEBIRD days clearly identify this
area as a high priority.  Marks' anonymous informant, jocularly named "Deep
Trance," even told a previous interviewer that, beginning in 1963, CIA and the
military's mind control efforts strongly emphasized electronics[49].  I
therefore assume -- not rashly, I hope -- that the "dark" MKULTRA subprojects
concerned matters such as brain implants, microwaves, ESB, and related
technologies.
   I make an issue of the timing and secrecy involved in this research to
underscore three points:  1. We can never know with certainty the true origin
dates of the various brainwashing methods -- often, we discover that techniques
which seem impossibly futuristic actually originated in the 19th century.
(Pioneering ESB research was conducted in 1898, by J.R. ("Bob" Dobbs) Ewald,
professor of physiology at Straussbourg[50].)  2. The open literature almost
certainly gives a bowdlerized view of the actual research.  3. Lavishly-funded
clandestine researchers -- unrestrained by peer review or the need for strict
controls -- can achieve far more rapid progress than scientists "on the
outside."
   Potential critics should keep these points in mind should they attempt to
invalidate the "mind control" thesis of UFO abductions by citing an abduction
account which antedates Delgado.


THE QUANDARY

   We have amply demonstrated, then, that as far back as the 1960s -- and
possibly earlier still -- scientists have had the capability to create implants
similar to those now purportedly visible in abductee MRI scans.  Indeed, we
have no notion just how advanced this technology has become, since the popular
press stopped reporting on brain implantation in the 1970s.  The research
has no doubt continued, albeit in a less public fashion.  In fact, scientists
such as Delgado have cast their eye far beyond the implants; ESB effects can
now be elicited with microwaves and other forms of electromagnetic radiation,
used with and without electrodes.
   So why -- if we take UFO abduction accounts at face value -- are the
"advanced aliens" using an old technology, an EARTH technology, a technology
which may soon be rendered obsolescent, if it hasn't been so rendered already?
I am reminded of the charming anachronisms in the old Flash Gordon serials,
where swords and spaceships clashed continually.
   Do they also watch black-and-white television on Zeta Reticuli?


REMOTE HYPNOSIS

   Hypnosis provides the (highly controversial) key which opens the door to
many abduction accounts[51].  And obviously, if my thesis is correct, hypnosis
plays a large part in the abduction itself.  One thing we know with certainty:
Since the earliest days of project BLUEBIRD, the CIA's spy-chiatrists spent
enormous sums mastering Mesmer's art.
   I cannot here give even a brief summary of hypnosis, nor even of the CIA's
studies in this area.  (Fortunately, FOIA requests were rather more successful
in shaking loose information on this topic than in the area of psycho-
electronics.)  Here, we will concentrate on a particularly intriguing
allegation -- one heard faintly, but persistently, for the past twenty years
by those who would investigate the shadow side of politics.
   If this allegation proves true, hypnosis is NOT necessarily a person-to-
person affair.
   The abductee -- or the mind control victim -- need not have physical
contact with a hypnotist for hypnotic suggestion to take effect; trance could
be induced, and suggestions made, via the intracerebral transmitters described
above.  The concept sounds like something out of Huxley's or Orwell's most
masochistic fantasies.  Yet remote hypnosis was first reported -- using
allegedly parapsychological means -- in the early 1930s, by L.L. Vasilev,
Professor of Physiology in the University of Leningrad[52].  Later, other
scientists attempted to accomplish the same goal, using less mystic means.
   Over the years, certain journalists have asserted that the CIA has mastered
a technology call RHIC-EDOM.  RHIC means "Radio Hypnotic Intracerebral
Control."  EDOM stands for "Electronic Dissolution of Memory."  Together, these
techniques can -- allegedly -- remotely induce hypnotic trance, deliver
suggestions to the subject, and erase all memory for both the instruction
period and the act which the subject is asked to perform.
   RHIC uses the stimoceiver, or a microminiaturized offspring of that tech-
nology to induce a hypnotic state.  Interestingly, this technique is also
reputed to involve the use of INTRAMUSCULAR implants, a detail strikingly
reminiscent of the "scars" mentioned in Budd Hopkins MISSING TIME.  Apparently,
these implants are stimulated to induce a post-hypnotic suggestion.
   EDOM is nothing more than missing time itself -- the erasure of memory from
consciousness through the blockage of synaptic transmission in certain areas of
the brain.  By jamming the brain's synapses through a surfeit of acetocholine,
neural transmission along selected pathways can be effectively stilled.
According to the proponents of RHIC-EDOM, acetocholine production can be
affected by electromagnetic means.  (Modern research in the psycho-physio-
logical effects of microwaves confirm this proposition.)
   Does RHIC-EDOM exist?  In our discussion of Delgado's work, I have already
cited a strange little book (published in 1969) titled WERE WE CONTROLLED?,
written by one Lincoln Lawrence, a former FBI agent turned journalist.  (The
name is a pseudonym; I know his real identity.)  This work deals at length with
RHIC-EDOM; a careful comparison of Lawrence's work with MKULTRA files declas-
sified ten years later indicates a strong possibility that the writer did
indeed have "inside" sources.
   Here is how Lawrence describes RHIC in action:

         It is the ultra-sophisticated application of post-hypnotic
      suggestion TRIGGERED AT WILL [italics in original] by radio
      transmission.  It is a recurring hypnotic state, re-induced
      automatically at intervals by the same radio control.  An
      individual is brought under hypnosis.  This can be done either
      with his knowledge  -- or WITHOUT it by use of narco-hypnosis,
      which can be brought into play under many guises.  He is then
      programmed to perform certain actions and maintain certain
      attitudes upon radio signal[53].

   Other authors have mentioned this technique -- specifically Walter Bowart
(in his book OPERATION MIND CONTROL) and journalist James Moore, who, in a
1975 issue of a periodical called MODERN PEOPLE, claimed to have secured a
350-page manual, prepared in 1963, on RHIC-EDOM[54].  He received the manual
from CIA sources, although -- interestingly -- the technique is said to have
originated in the military.

   The following quote by Moore on RHIC should prove especially intriguing
to abduction researchers who have confronted odd "personality shifts" in
abductees:

         Medically, these radio signals are directed to certain
      parts of the brain.  When a part of your brain receives a
      tiny electrical impulse from outside sources, such as vision,
      hearing, etc.,an emotion is produced -- anger at the sight of
      a gang of boys beating an old woman, for example.  The same
      emotion of anger can be created by artificial radio signals
      sent to your brain by a controller.  You could instantly feel
      the same white-hot anger without any apparent reason[55].

   Lawrence's sources imparted an even more tantalizing -- and frightening --
revelation:

         ...there is already in use a small EDOM generator-transmitter
      which can be concealed on the body of a person.  Contact with
      this person -- a casual handshake or even just a touch --
      transmits a tiny electronic charge plus an ultra-sonic signal
      tone which for a short while will disturb the time orientation
      of the person affected[56].

   If RHIC-EDOM exists, it goes a long way toward providing an earthbound
rationale for alien abductions -- or, at least, certain aspects of them.  The
phenomenon of "missing time" is no longer mysterious.  Abductee implants,
both intracerebral and otherwise, are explained.  And note the reference to
"recurring hypnotic state, reinduced automatically by the same radio command."
This situation may account for "repeater" abductees who, after their initial
encounter, have regular sessions of "missing time" and abduction -- even while
a bed-mate sleeps undisturbed.
   At present, I cannot claim conclusively that RHIC-EDOM is real.  To my
knowledge, the only official questioning of a CIA representive concerning
these techniques occurred in 1977, during Senate hearings on CIA drug testing.
Senator Richard Schweicker had the following interchange with Dr. Sidney
Gottlieb, an important MKULTRA administrator:

         SCHWEICKER:  Some of the projects under MKULTRA involved
      hypnosis, is that correct?
         GOTTLIEB:    Yes.
         SCHWEICKER:  Did any of these projects involve something
      called radio hypnotic intracerebral control, which is a
      combination, as I understand it, in layman's terms, of radio
      transmissions and hypnosis.
         GOTTLIEB:    My answer is "No."
         SCHWEICKER:  None whatsoever?
         GOTTLIEB:    Well, I am trying to be responsive to the
      terms you used.  As I remember it, there was a current
      interest, running interest, all the time in what effects
      people's standing in the field of radio energy have, and
      it could easily have been that somewhere in many projects,
      someone was trying to see if you could hypnotize someone
      easier if he was standing in a radio beam.  That would
      seem like a reasonable piece of research to do.

   Schweicker went on to mention that he had heard testimony that radar (i.e.,
microwaves) had been used to wipe out memory in animals; Gottlieb responded,
"I can believe that, Senator."[57]
   Gottlieb's blandishments do not comfort much.  For one thing, the good
doctor did not always provide thoroughly candid testimony.  (During the same
hearing he averred that 99 percent on the CIA's research had been openly
published; if so, why are so many MKULTRA subprojects still "dark," and why
does the Agency still go to great lengths to protect the identities of its
scientists?[58])  We should also recognize that the CIA's operations are
compartmentalized on a "need-to-know" basis; Gottlieb may not have had access
to the information requested by Schweicker.  Note that the MKULTRA rubric
circumscribed Gottlieb's statement: RHIC-EDOM might have been the focus of
another program.  (There were several others: MKNAOMI, MKACTION, MKSEARCH,
etc.)  Also keep in mind the revelation by "Deep Trance" that the CIA
concentrated on psychoelectronics AFTER the termination of MKULTRA in 1963.
Most significantly: RHIC-EDOM is described by both Lawrence and Moore as a
product of MILITARY research; Gottlieb spoke only of matters pertaining to CIA.
He may thus have spoken truthfully -- at least in a strictly technical sense --
while still misleading the Congressional interlocutors.
   Personally, I believe that the RHIC-EDOM story deserves a great deal of
further research.  I find it significant that when Dr. Petter Lindstrom
examined X-rays of Robert Naesland, a Swedish victim of brain-implantation, the
doctor authoritatively cited WERE WE CONTROLLED? in his letter of response[59].
This is the same Dr. Lindstrom noted for his pioneering use of ultrasonics in
neurosurgery[60].  Lincoln Lawrence's book has received a strong endorsement
indeed.
   Bowart's OPERATION MIND CONTROL contains a significant interview with an
intelligence agent knowledgeable in these areas.  Granted, the reader has every
right to adopt a skeptical attitude toward information culled from anonymous
sources; still, one should note that this operative's statements confirm, in
pertinent part, Lawrence's thesis[61].
   Most importantly: The open literature on brain-wave entrainment and the
behavioral effects of electromagnetic radiation substantiates much of the RHIC-
EDOM story -- as we shall see.


THAT'S ENTRAINMENT

   Robert Anton Wilson, an author with a devoted cult following, recently has
taken to promoting a new generation of "mind machines" designed to promote
creativity, stimulate learning, and alter consciousness -- i.e., provide a
drug-less high.  Interestingly, these machines can also induce "Out-of-Body-
Experiences," in which the percipient mentally "travels" to another location
while his body remains at rest[62].  This rapidly-developing technology has
spawned a technological equivalent to the drug culture; indeed, the aficionados
of the electronic buzz even have their own magazine, REALITY HACKERS. [Now
defunct.  -jpg]  I strongly suspect that we will hear much of these machines in
the future.
   One such device is called the "hemi-synch."  This headphone-like invention
produces slightly different frequences in each ear; the brain calculates the
difference between these frequencies, resulting in a rhythm known as the
"binaural beat."  The brain "entrains" itself to this beat -- that is, the
subject's EEG slows down or speeds up to keep pace with its electronic
running partner[63].
   The brain has a "beat" of its own.
   This rhythm was first discovered in 1924 by the German psychiatrist Hans
Berger, who recorded cerebral voltages as part of a telepathy study[64].  He
noted two distinct frequencies: alpha (8-13 cycles per second), associated
with a relaxed, alert state, and beta (14-30 cycles per second), produced
during states of agitation and intense mental concentration.  Later, other
rhythms were noted, which are particularly important for our present purposes:
theta (4-7 cycles per second), a hypnogogic state, and delta (.5 to 3.5 cycles
per second), generally found in sleeping subjects[65].
   The hemi-synch -- and related mind-machines -- can produce alpha or theta
waves, on demand, according to the operator's wishes.  A suitably-entrained
brain is much more responsive to suggestion, and is even likely to experience
vivid hallucinations.
   I have spoken to several UFO abductees who describe a "stereophonic sound"
effect -- EXACTLY SIMILAR TO THAT PRODUCED BY THE HEMI-SYNCH -- preceding many
"encounters."  Of course, one usually administers the hemi-synch via head-
phones, but I see no reason why the effect cannot be transmitted via the above-
described stimoceiver.  Again, I remind the reader of the abductee with an
implant just inside her ear canal.
   There's more than one way to entrain a brain.  Michael Hutchison's excellent
book MEGA BRAIN details the author's personal experiences with many such
devices -- the Alpha-stim, TENS, the Synchro-energizer, Tranquilite, etc.  He
recounts dazzling, Dali-esque hallucinations, as a result of using this mind-
expanding technology; moreover, he offers a seductive argument that these
devices may represent a true breakthrough in consciousness-control, thereby
fulfilling the dashed dream of the hallucinogenic '60s.
   I wish to avoid a knee-jerk Luddite response to these fascinating wonder-
boxes.  At the same time, I recognize the dangers involved.  What about the
possibility of an outside operator literally "changing our minds" by altering
our brainwaves without our knowledge or permission?  If these machines can
induce a hypnotic state, what's to stop a skilled hypnotist from making use
of this state?
   Granted, most of these devices require some physical interaction with the
subject.  But a tool called the Bio-Pacer can, according to its manufacturer,
produce a number of mood altering frequencies -- WITHOUT attachment to the
subject.  Indeed, the Bio-Pacer III (a high-powered version) can affect an
entire room.  This device costs $275, according to the most recent price
sheet available[66].  What sort of machine might $27,500 buy?  Or $275,000?
What effects, what ranges might a million-dollar machine be capable of?   The military certainly has that sort of money.
   And they're certainly interested in this sort of technology, according to
Michael Hutchison.  His interview with an informant named Joseph Light elicited
some particularly provocative revelations.  According to Light:

         There are important elements in the scientific community,
      powerful people, who are very much interested in these areas...
      but they have to keep most of their work secret.  Because as
      soon as they start to publish some of these sensitive things,
      they have problems in their lives.  You see, they work on
      research grants, and if you follow the research being done,
      you find that as soon as these scientists publish something
      about this, their research funds are cut off.  There are areas
      in bioelectric research  where very simple techniques and
      devices can have mind-boggling effects.  Conceivably, if you
      have a crazed person with a bit of a technical background, he
      can do a lot of damage[67].

   This last statement is particularly evocative.  In 1984, a violent neo-NAZI
group called The Order (responsible for the murder of talk-show host Alan Berg)
established contact with two government scientists engaged in clandestine
research to project chemical imbalances and render targeted individuals docile
via certain frequencies of electronic waves.  For $100,000 the scientists were
willing to deliver this information[68].
   Thus, at least one group of crazed individuals almost got the goods.


WAVE YOUR BRAIN GOODBYE

   Every Senator and Congressional representative has a "wavie" file.  So do
many state representatives.  Wavies have even pled their case to private
institutions such as the Christic Institute[69].
   And who are the wavies?
   They claim to be victims of clandestine bombardment with non-ionizing
radiation -- or microwaves.  They report sudden changes in psychological
states, alteration of sleep patterns, intracerebral voices and other sounds,
and physiological effects.  Most people never realize how many wavies there are
in this country.  I've spoken to a number of wavies myself.
   Are these troubled individuals seeking an exterior rationale for their
mental problems?  Maybe.  Indeed, I'm sure that such is the case in many
instances.  But the fact is that the literature on the behavioral effects of
microwaves, extra-low-frequencies (ELF) and ultra-sonics is such that we
cannot blithely dismiss ALL such claims.
   For decades, American science and industry tried to convince the population
that microwaves could have no adverse effects on human beings at sub-thermal
levels -- in other words, the attitude was, "If it can't burn you, it can't
hurt you."  This approach became increasingly difficult to defend as reports
mounted of microwave-induced physiological effects.  Technicians described
"hearing" certain radar installations; users of radar telescopes began
developing cataracts at an appallingly high rate[70].  The Soviets had long
recognized the strange and sometimes subtle effects of these radio frequencies,
which is why their exposure standards have always been much stricter.
   Soviet microwave bombardment of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow prompted the
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency's Project PANDORA (later renamed),
whose ostensible goal was to determine whether these pulsations (reportedly
10 cycles per second, which puts them in the alpha range) could be used for the
purposes of mind control.  I suspect that the "war on Tchaikowsky Street," as
I call it[71], was used, at least in part, as a cover story for DARPA mind
control research, and that the stories floated in the news (via, for example,
Jack Anderson's column) about Soviet remote brainwashing served the same
propaganda purposes as did the bleatings of Edward Hunter during the 1950s.[72]
   What can low-level microwaves do to the mind?
   According to a DIA report released under the Freedom of Information Act[73],
microwaves can induce metabolic changes, alter brain functions, and disrupt
behavior patterns.  PANDORA discovered that pulsed microwaves can create leaks
in the blood/brain barrier, induce heart seizures, and create behavioral
disorganization[74].  In 1970, a RAND Corporation scientist reported that
microwaves could be used to promote insomnia, fatigue, irritability, memory
loss, and hallucinations[75].
   Perhaps the most significant work in this area has been produced by Dr. W.
Ross Adey at the University of Southern California.  He determined that
behavior and emotional states can be altered without electrodes -- simply by
placing the subject in an electromagnetic field.  By directing a carrier
frequency to stimulate the brain and using amplitude modulation to "shape" the
wave into a mimicry of a desired EEG frequency, he was able to impose a 4.5
cps theta rhythm on his subjects -- a frequency which he previously measured
in the hippocampus during avoidance learning.  Thus, he could externally
condition the mind towards an aversive reaction[76].  (Adey has also done
extensive work on the use of electrodes in animals[77].)  According to another
prominent microwave scientist, Allen Frey, other frequencies could -- in
animal studies -- induce docility[78].  [cf USP #3,884,218 by Robert ("Bob")
Monroe, METHOD OF INDUCING AND MAINTAINING VARIOUS STAGES OF SLEEP IN THE
HUMAN BEING, granted 20 May 1975; ABSTRACT:  A method of inducing sleep in the
human being wherein an audio signal is generated comprising a familiar pleasing
repetitive sound modulated by an EEG sleep pattern.  -jpg]
   The controversial researcher Andrijah Puharich asserts that "a weak (1 mW)
4 Hz magnetic sine wave will modify human brain waves in 6 to 10 seconds.  The
psychological effects of a 4 Hz sine magnetic wave are negative -- causing
dizzyness, nausea, headache, and can lead to vomiting."  Conversely, an 8 Hz
magnetic sine wave has beneficial effects[79].  Though some writers question
Puharich's integrity (perhaps correctly, considering his involvement in the
confused tale of Uri Geller), his claims here seem in line with the findings of
less-flamboyant experimenters.
   As investigative journalist Anne Keeler writes:

         Specific frequencies at low intensities can predictably
      influence sensory processes...pleasantness-unpleasantness,
      strain-relaxation, and excitement-quiescence can be created
      with the fields.  Negative feelings and avoidance are strong
      biological phenomena and relate to survival.  Feelings are
      the true basis of much "decision-making" and often occur as
      subthreshold [i.e. subliminal -jpg] impressions...Ideas
      INCLUDING NAMES [my italics] [Cannon's italics -jpg] can be
      synchronized with the feelings that the fields induce[80].

   Adey and compatriots have compiled an entire library of frequencies and
pulsation rates which can affect the mind and nervous system.  Some of these
effects can be extremely bizarre.  For example, engineer Tom Jarski, in an
attempt to replicate the seminal work of F. Cazzamali, found that a particular
frequency caused a ringing sensation in the ears of his subjects -- who felt
strangely compelled to BITE the experimenters![81].  On the other hand, the
diet-conscious may be intrigued by the finding that rats exposed to ELF waves
failed to gain weight normally[82].
   For our present purposes, the most significant electromagnetic research
findings concern microwave signals modulated by hypnoidal EEG frequencies.
Microwaves can act much like the "hemi-synch" device previously described --
that is, they can entrain the brain to theta rhythms[83].  I need not emphasize
the implications of remotely synchronizing the brain to resonate at a frequency
conducive to sleep, or to hypnosis.
   Trance may be remotely induced -- but can it be directed?  Yes.  Recall the
intracerebral voices mentioned earlier in our discussion of Delgado.  The same
effect can be produced by "the wave."  Frey demonstrated in the early 1960s
that microwaves could produce booming, hissing, buzzing, and other intra-
cerebral static (this phenomenon is now called "the Frey effect"); in 1973,
Dr. Joseph Sharp, of the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, expanded on
Frey's work in an experiment where the subject -- in this case, Sharp himself--
"heard" and understood spoken words delivered via a pulsed-microwave analog of
the speaker's sound vibrations[84].
   Dr. Robert Becker comments that "Such a device has obvious applications in
covert operations designed to drive a target crazy with 'voices' or deliver
undetectable instructions to a programmed assassin."[85]  In other words, we
now have, AT THE PUSH OF A BUTTON, the technology either to inflict an
electronic GASLIGHT -- or to create a true MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE.  Indeed, the
former capability could effectively disguise the latter.  Who will listen to
the victims, when electronically-induced hallucinations they recount exactly
parallel the classical signals of paranoid schizophrenia and/or temporal lobe
epilepsy?
   Perhaps the most ominous revelations, however, concern the mysterious work
of J.F. "BoB" Schapitz, who in 1974 filed a plan to explore the interaction of
radio frequencies and hypnosis.  He proposed the following:

         In this investigation it will be shown that the spoken
      word of the hypnotist may be conveyed by modulated electro-
      magnetic energy DIRECTLY INTO THE SUBCONSCIOUS PARTS OF THE
      HUMAN BRAIN [my italics] -- i.e., without employing any
      technical devices for receiving or transcoding the messages
      and without the person exposed to such influence having a
      chance to control the information input consciously.


   He outlined an experiment, innocent in its immediate effects yet chilling
in its implications, whereby subjects would be implanted with the subconscious
suggestion to leave the lab and buy a particular item; this action would be
triggered by a certain cue word or action.  Schapitz felt certain that the
subjects would rationalize the behavior -- in other words, the subject would
seize upon any excuse, however thin, to chalk up his actions to the working of
free will[86].  His instincts on this latter point coalesce perfectly with
findings of professional hypnotists[87].
   Schapitz's work was funded by the Department of Defense.  Despite FOIA
requests, the results have never been publicly revealed[88].


FINAL THOUGHTS ON "THE WAVE"

   I must again offer a caveat about possible disparities between the
"official" record of electromagnetism's psychological effects and the hidden
history.  Once more, we face a question of timing.  How long ago did this
research REALLY begin?
   In the eary years of this century, Nikola Tesla seems to have stumbled
upon certain of the behavioral effects of electromagnetic exposure[89].
Cazamalli, mentioned earlier, conducted his studies in the 1930s.  In 1934,
E.L. Chaffe and R.U. Light published a paper on "A Method for the Remote
Control of Electrical Stimulation of the Nervous System."[90]  From the very
beginning of their work with microwaves, the Soviets explored the more subtle
physiological effects of electromagnetism -- and despite the bleatings of
certain right-wing alarmists[91] that an "electromagnetic gap" separates us
from Soviet advances, East European literature in this area has been closely
monitored for decades by the West.  ARTICHOKE/BLUEBIRD project outlines,
dating from the early 1950s, prominently mention the need to explore all
possible uses of the electromagnetic spectrum.
   Another point worth mentioning concerns the combination of EMR and miniature
brain electrodes.  The father of the stimoceiver, Dr. J.M.R. "Bob" Delgado, has
recently conducted experiments in which monkeys are exposed to electromagnetic
fields, thereby eliciting a wide range of behavioral effects -- one monkey
might fly into a volcanic rage while, just a few feet away, his simian partner
begins to nod off.  Fascinatingly, when monkeys with brain implants felt "the
wave," the effects were greatly intensified.  Apparently, these tiny electrodes
can act as AMPLIFIERS of the electromagnetic effect[92].
   This last point is important to our "alien abduction" thesis.  Critics
might counter that any burst of microwave energy powerful enough to have truly
remote effects would probably also create a thermal reaction.  That is, if a
clandestine operator propagated a "wave" from outside an abductee's bedroom
(say, from a low-flying helicopter, or from a truck travelling alongside the
subject's car), the power necessary to do the job might be such that the
microwave would cook the target before it got a chance to launder his thoughts.
Our abductee would end up like the victim of the microwave "hit" in the finale
of Jerzy Kozinsky's COCKPIT.
   It's a fair criticism.  But Delgado's work may give us our solution.  Once
an abductee has been implanted -- and if we are to trust hypnotic regression
accounts of abductees at all, the first implanting session may occur in
childhood -- the chip-in-the-brain would act an an intensifier of the signal.
Such an individual could have any number of "UFO" experiences while his or her
bed partner dozes comfortably.
   Furthermore, recent reports indicate that a "waver" can achieve pinpoint
accuracy without the use of Delgado-style implants.  In 1985, volunteers at the
Midwest Research Institute in Kansas City, Missouri, were exposed to microwave
beams as part of an experiment sponsored by the Department of Energy and the
New York State Department of Health.  As THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC[93] described the
experiment, "A matched control group sat IN THE SAME ROOM without being
bombarded by non-ionizing radiation." [My italics.]  Apparently, one can focus
"the wave" quite narrowly -- a fact which has wide implications for abductees.

                              III. Applications

   So we now have some idea of the tools available to the "spy-chiatrists."
How have these tools been used?
   This question necessarily involves some detective work.  The Central
Intelligence Agency, under duress, provided some, though not enough, documen-
tation of its efforts to commandeer "the space between our ears."  We know that
these efforts were extensive, long-term, and at least partially successful.  We
know also that these experiments used human subjects.  But who?  When?
   One paradox of this line of inquiry is that, for many readers, the victims
elicit sympathy only insofar as they remain anonymous.  Intellectually, we
realize that MKULTRA and its allied projects must have affected hundreds,
probably thousands, of individuals.  Yet we react with deep suspicion
whenever one of these individuals steps forward and identifies himself, or
whenever an independent investigator argues that mind control has directed some
newsworthy person's otherwise inexplicable actions.  Where, the skeptic may
rightfully ask, is the documentation supporting such accusations?  Most of the
MKULTRA "paper trail" was (allegedly) burnt at Richard Helms' order; what's
left has been censored, leaving black ink smudges wherever the names originally
appeared.  Claimed mind control victims can, for the most part, only give us
testimony -- and how reliable can such testimony be, especially in light of the
fact that one purpose of MKULTRA was to induce insanity?  Anyone asserting that
he was victimized by the program might well be seeking an extrinsic excuse for
his own psychopathology.  If you say that you are a manufactured madman, you
were probably mad to begin with: Catch 22.
   When John Marks wrote THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE" he received
numerous letters from people insisting that they had been drugged, "waved," or
otherwise abused by the CIA or the military.  Most of these communications went
directly into his crank file.  Perhaps many deserved that destination; I know
of at least one that did not[94].
   Marks did, however, devote much attention to Val Orlikov, a former "patient"
of perhaps the most notorious figure in the annals of American medical crime:
Dr. Ewen ("BoB") Cameron, a CIA-funded scientist heading the Allan Memorial
Institute at McGill University, Montreal, Canada.  Cameron, a highly-respected
mental health researcher[95], experimented with a technique he called "psychic
driving," a brainwashing program which involved inflicting upon a subject an
endless tape loop blaring selected messages, 16-to-24 hours a day, combined
with massive electroshock and LSD.  The project's "guinea pigs" were patients
who had come to Allan Memorial with relatively minor psychological complaints.
Cameron's experiments failed and his theories were discredited, which may
explain why the CIA and its apologists now feel relatively comfortable
discussing the Frankensteinian efforts at Allan Memorial, as opposed to more
successful work elsewhere.
   Orlikov's testimony has received much respectful attention from those
writers who have examined MKULTRA, and correctly so.  When I studied the files
at the National Security Archives, I was particularly keen to read her original
letters to John Marks, for these pages had led to the unmasking of an
especially heinous CIA project.  The letters, interestingly enough, proved just
as vague, disjointed, and bizarre as similar correspondence which researchers
routinely dismiss.  Orlikov can't be blamed for the hazy nature of her
recollections; a certain amount of fog is to be expected, given the nature of
the crime perpetrated against her.  The important point is that her story,
ultimately, was found to be true.  All of which leads me to wonder: Why did
HER claims prompt investigation when those of others prompt only dismissal?
Perhaps the answer lies in the fact that Orlikov's husband became a Canadian
Member of Parliament.  Any victims of CIA experimentation who wish to be taken
seriously ought, perhaps, first make sure to marry well.
   Of course, we can easily forgive previous writers and readers whose
researches into MKULTRA have been biased in favor of complacency[96].  But we
can't let this natural prejudice cripple our present investigation.  Let us
examine, then, a few of the "horror stories" from the mind control literature
and highlight possible correlations to abductee testimony.


PALLE HARDRUP'S "GUARDIAN ANGEL"

   As mentioned previously, I have not delved much into the subject of hypnosis
in this paper -- primarily because of space and time limitations, but also
because discussions of the possibilities of hypnosis PER SE tend to cloud the
issue of its use in conjunction with the above-mentioned electronic techniques.
Obviously, however, hypnosis is a major weapon in the mind controller's
armament; in a forthcoming full-length work, I intend to deal with this subject
at much greater length.
   Needless to say, one of the primary objectives of MKULTRA and related
projects was to determine whether one could hypnotically induce someone to
commit an anti-social act.  This possibility remains one of the most hotly-
debated issues in hypnosis, for conventional wisdom asserts that no individual
can be hypnotized to commit an action which violates his interior moral code.
Martin Orne, editor of the presitigious INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CLINICAL AND
EXPERIMENTAL HYPNOSIS agrees with this axiom[97], and he is in a position to
codify much of the established view on this topic.  Orne, however, is a
veteran of MKULTRA, and furthermore seems to have lied -- at least in his
original communications -- to author John Marks about his witting involvement
in subproject 94[98].  While I respect much of Orne's ground-breaking work,
his pronouncements do not hold, for this layman, an Olympian unassailability.
   To be sure, many other hypnosis experts, untainted by Company connections,
also discount the possibility that anti-social actions can be induced.  But a
number of highly-experienced professionals -- including Milton Kline, William
Kroger, George Estabrooks, John Watkins, and Herbert Spiegel -- have argued
that such actions can, at least to some degree, be elicited by an outside
manipulator.

   Occasionally, claims of hypnotically-induced anti-social behavior find
their way into the courtroom; one such case, which led to the incarceration of
the hypnotist, was the Palle Hardrup affair.  This incident occurred in
Denmark in 1951[99].  Palle Hardrup robbed a bank, killing a guard in the
process, and later claimed that he had been instructed to do so by the
hypnotist Bjorn Nielsen.  Nielsen eventually confessed to having engineered
the crime as a test of his hypnotic abilities.
   The most significant aspect of this incident concerns the "pose" Nielsen
adopted to work his malicious designs.  During the hypnosis sessions, Nielsen
hypnotically suggested that he was Hardrup's "guardian angel," represented
by the letter X.  Hardrup testified that "There is another room next door
where Nielsen and I go and talk on our own.  It is there that my guardian
spirit usually comes and talks to me.  Nielsen says that X has a task for me."
   One of these tasks was arranging for Hardrup's girlfriend to have sex with
the hypnotist.  The other tasks, he mentioned, included robbery and murder.
Nielsen convinced his victim that "X" wanted the robbery funds to be used for
worthwhile political goals.  The end, Hardrup was told, justified the means.
   Compare this scenario to that encountered in the typical contactee case,
in which alien "guardians" convince their victims/subjects that the encounter
will eventually serve some unspecified "higher purpose."  Indeed, in my
interviews with abductees who have established a "long-term" relationship with
their visitors, I have found that some of them originally believed themselves
in contact with Hardrup-like angelic guardians.  Only in recent years was the
"angel" pose discarded and the true "alien" form revealed.
   Thus we have one possible means of overcoming the proposition that hypnosis
cannot induce anti-social behavior.  If a hypnotist lacks scruples, and has
access to a particularly susceptible subject, he can induce a MISPERCEIVED
REALITY.  Actions which we would abhor in an everyday context become acceptable
in specialized circumstances: A citizen who could never commit murder on a
surburban street might, if drafted into an army, kill on the field of battle.
In hypnosis, the mind becomes that battlefield.  In the words of Dr. John
Watkins,

         We behave on the basis of our perceptions.  If our perceptions
      of a situation can be altered so as to cause us to misconstrue it,
      or to develop a false belief, then our behavior in relation to it
      will be drastically altered.  It is precisely in the area of
      changing perceptions that the hypnotic modality demonstrates its
      most powerful effects.  Hallucinations both under hypnosis, and
      posthypnotic, can easily be induced in the suggestible subject.
      He can be made to ignore painful stimuli, be apparently unable
      to hear loud sounds, AND "SEE" INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT PRESENT
      [my italics].  Moreover, attitudes and beliefs can be initiated
      in him which are quite abnormal and often contrary to those
      which he previously held[100].

   If traditional hypnosis, unaided, can achieve such changes in perception,
one can only imagine the possibilities inherent in the combination of hypnotic
techniques with the psychoelectronic research previously described.
   Scientists such as Orne and Milton Erickson[101] have taken issue with
Watkins' assertions.  But the Hardrup case would appear to bear Watkins out.
If someone can be convinced that he, like Jeanne D'Arc, acts under the
influence of a supernatural higher power, then previously unthinkable
capabilitites may be evinced and "impossible" actions carried forth.  Indeed,
when we consider the extreme personality changes -- and occasionally, the
heinous actions, elicited by leaders of certain cults, and occult groups[102],
we understand the desirability of installing a hypnotic "cover story" within a
supernatural matrix.  People will do for God -- or the Devil, or the Space
Brothers -- what they would not do otherwise.
   The date of the Hardrup affair corresponds to the institution of BLUEBIRD/
ARTICHOKE; it doesn't require much imagination to see how this case could have
served as a model to the scientists researching those and subsequent projects.


SCREEN MEMORY

   According to declassified documents in the Marks files, a major difficulty
faced by the MKULTRA researchers concerned the "disposal problem."  What to do
with the victims of CIA-sponsored electroshock, hypnosis, and drug experiment-
ation?  The Company resorted to distressing, but characteristic, tactics: They
disposed of their human guinea pigs by incarcerating them in insane asylums, by
performing icepick lobotomies, and by ordering "executive actions."[103]
   A more sophisticated solution had to be found.  One of the goals of the
CIA's mind control efforts was the erasure of memory via hypnosis (and drugs,
electronics, lobotomies, etc.); not only would this hide what occurred during
the experimental indoctrination/programming sessions, it would prove useful in
the field.  "Amnesia was a big goal," confirms Victor Marchetti, who points out
its usefulness in dealing with contract agents: "After you've done it, the
agent doesn't even know what he's done...you send him in, he does the job.
When he comes out, you clean his head out."[104]
   The big problem: Despite hypnotically-induced amnesia, there would be memory
leaks -- snippets of the repressed material would arise spontaneously, in
dreams, as flashbacks, etc.  A proposed solution: Give the subject a "screen
memory," a false story; thus, even if he starts to recall the material, he will
recall it incorrectly.
   Even the conservative Dr. Orne notes that:

         A S [subject] who is able to develop good posthypnotic amnesia
      will also respond to suggestions to remember events which did not
      actually occur.  On awakening, he will fail to recall the real
      events of the trance and will instead recall the suggested events.
      If anything, this phenomenon is easier to produce than total
      amnesia, perhaps because it eliminates the subjective feeling of
      an empty space in memory.[105]

   Not only would the screen memories fill in the uncomfortable blanks in the
subjects' recollection, they would protect against revelation.  One fear of
the MKULTRA scientists was that a hypno-programmed individual used as, say, a
courier, could be un-programmed by another hypnotist, perhaps working for the
enemy.  Thus, the MKULTRA scientists decided to instill multiple personalities
-- multiple cover stories, if you will -- to confuse any "unauthorized"
hypnotist.[106]
   One case using this technique centered on an assassin named Luis Castillo,
who, after his capture in the Philippines, was extensively de-briefed and
studied by experts in the employ of the National Bureau of Investigation, that
country's equivalent to our FBI.  Castillo was discovered to have had at least
FOUR separate personalities hypnotically instilled; each personality could be
triggered by a specific cue.  In one state, he claimed to be Sgt. Manuel Angel
Ramirez, of the Strategic Air Tactical Command in South Vietnam; supposedly,
"Ramirez" was the illegitimate son of a certain pipe-smoking, highly-placed CIA
official whose initials were A.D.[107]  Another personality claimed to be one
of John F. Kennedy's assassins.
   The main hypnotist involved with this case labelled these hypnotic alter-
egos "Zombie states."  The report on the case stated that "The Zombie pheno-
menon referred to here is a somnambulistic behavior displayed by the subject
in a conditioned response to a series of words, phrases, and statements,
apparently unknown to the subject during his normal waking state."
   Upon Castillo's repatriation to the United States, the FBI claimed that he
had fabricated the story.  In his book OPERATION MIND CONTROL, Walter Bowart
makes a convincing case against the FBI's claims.  Certainly, many aspects of
the Castillo affair argue for his sincerity -- including his hypnotically-
induced insensitivity to pain[108], his maintenance of the story (or stories)
even when severly inebriated, and his apparently programmed suicide attempts.
   If Castillo told the truth, as I believe he did, then he manifested both
hypnotically-induced multiple personality and pseudomemory.  The former remains
controversial; the latter has been repeatedly replicated in experimental
situations[109].
   This point is vitally important for students of the abduction phenomenon.
We CANNOT assume the accuracy of abduction descriptions given during subsequent
hypnotic regression.  Moreover, we cannot even assume the accuracy of spon-
taneously-arising recollections (i.e., abduction memories not elicited through
hypnotic regression).  Indeed, responsible skeptics have argued that hypnotic
regression may prove inadvertently harmful, in that it may lock in place a
false remembrance.  (Note, however, that other psychiatric professionals
consider hypnotic regression the best technique, however flawed, in unlocking
amnesia[110].  For my part, I maintain an ambivalent and cautious attitude
toward the use of hypnosis in abductee work.)
   Granted, it is all too easy for the debunkers to cry "confabulation" to
dismiss hypnotic testimony which does not conform to our preconceptions about
the possible; I do not intend to make this same error.  Whenever skeptics
offer the phenomenon of pseudomemory to rationalize abduction claims, they cite
experimental situations in which PSEUDOMEMORY WAS ORIGINALLY CREATED BY A
HYPNOTIST[111].  These experiments can not be cited as proof that an individual
abductee spontaneously conjured up a fantasy (which just happens to correspond
to the details of hundreds of similar "fantasies").  Rather, laboratory studies
of pseudomemory creation prove MY point: Pseudomemory can be induced BY
PREVIOUS HYPNOSIS[112].
   In other words, an abductee may talk of aliens -- when the reality was
something else entirely.
   In correspondence with me, a noted abduction researcher wrote of an instance
in which an abductee recounted seeing a helicopter during his experience; as
the abductee testimony progressed, the helicopter turned into a UFO. During one
of the (quite few) regression sessions I attended, I heard an exactly similar
narrative.  Hopkins would argue that the helicopter was a "screen memory"
hiding the awful reality of the UFO encounter.  But does Occam's razor really
cut that way?  Shouldn't we also consider the possibility that the object in
question really WAS a helicopter -- which the abductee was instructed to recall
as a UFO?

THE SUPER SPY

   Among the released BLUEBIRD/ARTICHOKE/MKULTRA papers was the following
handwritten memorandum, unsigned and undated:

         I have developed a technic which is safe and secure (free
      from international censorship).  It has to do with the
      conditioning of our own people.  I can accomplish this as a
      one-man job.
         The method is the production of hypnosis by means of
      simple oral medication.  Then (with NO further medication)
      the hypnosis is re-enforced daily during the following three
      or four days.
         Each individual is conditioned against revealing any
      information to an enemy, even though subjected to hypnosis
      or drugging.  If preferable, he may be conditioned to give
      FALSE information rather than NO information.

   In the margin of this document, one of Marks' assistants wrote, "Is this
Wendt?"  The reference here is to G. Richard ("BoB") Wendt, a professor
employed by project CHATTER who, in 1951, led both his Naval employers and the
CIA on a mind control merry-goose-chase, when an experiment similar to that
described above failed to produce results[113].  Even if the above memorandum
DOES describe an operational failure (and the tactics described in this memo
do not seem very feasible to me), we should not rest complacent.  We now know
that, in at least ONE case, more sophisticated techniques made the above
scenario a reality.
   I refer to the case of Candy Jones.
   Her story has filled at least one book[114] and ought, one day, to give rise
to another.  Obviously, I cannot here give all the details of this fascinating
and frightening narrative.  But a precis is mandatory.
   Ms. Jones (born Jessica Wilcox) achieved star status as a model during
World War II, and later established her own modelling agency.  An FBI man
requested her to allow her place of business to be used as a "mail drop" for
the Bureau and "another government agency" (presumably, the CIA); Candy, deeply
patriotic, accepted the proposition gladly.  Toiling on the fringes of the
clandestine world, Candy eventually came into contact with a "Dr. Gilbert
Jensen," who worked, in turn, with a "Dr. Marshall Burger."  (Both names are
pseudonyms.)  Unknown to her, these doctors had been employed as "spy-
chiatrists" by the CIA.  Using a job interview as a cover, Jensen induced
hypnosis, found Candy to be a particularly responsive subject -- and proceeded
to use her as other scientists would use a rhesus monkey.  She became a test
subject for the CIA's mind control program.
   Her job -- insofar as it is known -- was to provide a clandestine courier
service[115].  Estabrooks had outlined the basic idea years earlier: Induce
hypnosis via a disguised technique, give the messenger information to
memorize, hypnotically "erase" the message from conscious memory, and install
a post-hypnotic suggestion that the message (now buried within the sub-
conscious) will be brought forth only upon a specific cue.  If the hypnotist
can create such a courier, ultra-security can be guaranteed; even torture won't
cause the messenger to tell what he knows -- because he doesn't know that he
knows it[116].  According to the highly respected Dr. Milton Kline, "Evidence
really does exist that has not been published" proving that Estabrooks' perfect
secret agent could be successfully evoked[117].
   Candy was one such success story.  Success, in this context, means that she
could be -- and was -- brutally tortured and abused while running assignments
for the CIA.  All the MKULTRA toys were brought into play: hypnosis, drugs,
conditioning -- and electronics.  Using these devices, Jensen and Burger
managed to:

-- install a "duplicate personality,"

-- create amnesia of both the programming sessions and the field assignments,

-- turn Candy into a vicious, hate-mongering bigot, the better to isolate her
   from the rest of humanity (previously, her associates considered her
   noteworthy for her racial tolerance; her modelling agency was one of the
   first to break the color barrier), and

-- program her to commit suicide at the end of her usefulness to the Agency.

   The programming techniques used on her were flawed.  She breached security
when she married famed New York radio personality John Nebel[118], who, using
hypnotic regression, elicited the long-repressed truth.  Eventually, the
"Other Candy" was bade farewell, and the programming broken.
   Skeptics might find Candy's story as incredible as the abduction accounts--
after all, an amateur had conducted her hypnotic regression, and the possi-
bility of confabulation always lurks.  Nevertheless, I feel that the veracity
of her narrative has been established beyond reasonable doubt.  In her hypnotic
regression sessions, she recalled being programmed at a government-connected
institute in northern California -- which, as John Marks' investigators later
proved, was indeed heavily involved with government-funded brainwashing
research[119].  Marks himself believes Candy's story -- not least, because the
details of the programming methods used on her were substantiated by documents
released AFTER her book was published[120].  Interviews with Milton Kline,
Dr. Frances Jakes, John Watkins and others provided the testimony that the
programming of Candy Jones was feasible -- and Deep Trance substantiated the
story[121].
   Recently, the case has received important "indirect" confirmation:
Investigators interested in follow-up research have filed FOIA requests with
the CIA for all papers relating to Candy Jones.  The agency admits that it has
a substantial file on her, but refuses to release any part of it.  If her tale
is false, then why would the CIA be so reluctant to deliver the information?
Indeed, why would they have a file in the first place?[122]
   The final confirmation of Candy's tale requires a revelation -- one which I
make with some trepidation, even though the individual named is dead.
   "Marshall Burger" was really Dr. William Kroger[123].
   Kroger, long associated with the espionage establishment, had written the
following in 1963:

         ...a good subject can be hypnotized to deliver secret
      information.  The memory of this message could be covered
      by an artificially-induced amnesia.  In the event that he
      should be captured, he naturally could not remember that he
      had ever been given the message...however, since he had
      been given a post-hypnotic suggestion, the message would be
      subject to recall through a specific cue.[124]

   If Candy confabulated her story, why did she name this particualr scientist,
who, writing theoretically in 1963, predicted the subsequent events in her
life?[125]
   After L'AFFAIR JONES, Kroger transferred his base of operations to UCLA --
specifically, to the Neuropsychiatric Institute run by Dr. Louis Jolyon West,
an MKULTRA veteran.  There he wrote HYPNOSIS AND BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION[126],
with a preface by Martin Orne (another MKULTRA veteran) and H.J. Eysenck (still
another MKULTRA veteran).  The finale of this opus contains chilling hints
of the possibilites inherent in combining hypnosis with ESB, implants, and
conditioning -- though Kroger is careful to point out that "we are not
concerned that man might be conditioned by rewards and punishments through
electronic brain stimulation to be controlled like robots."[127]  HE may not
be concerned -- but perhaps WE ought to be.
   The control of Candy Jones gives us much information useful to our "alien
abduction" hypothesis.
   1. Her torture sessions -- inflicted during her programming by her CIA
masters, and on missions by as-yet mysterious persons -- seem strikingly like
the otherwise senselessly painful "examinations" allegedly conducted aboard
alien spacecraft.
   2. Her personality shifts roughly parallel those experienced by certain UFO
abductees.
   3. Despite her brutalization, she remained "loyal" to Drs. Jensen and
Burger.  This bewildering behavior reminds me of my first abductee interviews,
during which I heard ghastly descriptions of UFO torture sessions -- followed
by protestations of limitless love for the alien pain-mongers.
   4. Like many abductees, Candy had to attend regular "conditioning" sessions.
Repeated exposure to the programming is necessary to effect continuous control.
   5. To maintain their hammerlock on her mind, Candy's handlers programmed her
to remain isolated.  Specifically, they instilled a deep paranoia toward other
human beings; "outsiders" were probable enemies, out to use or abuse her. I
have seen this pattern consistently in my own work with abductees[128].  Skep-
tics would argue that unreasonable abductee fears probably indicate paranoid
schizophrenia--one symptom of which can, indeed, be hallucinatory experiences.
But most abductees are easily hypnotized, while paranoid schizophrenics are
extremely difficult to "put under," according to Dr. Edward Simpson-Kallas, a
psychiatrist with wide experience in the area of forensic hypnosis[129].  If,
however, those unreasonable fears had been hypnotically induced, the contra-
diction is resolved.
   6. Candy was the product of an unhappy childhood, hence her propensity
toward multiple personality[130].  Many of the "repeater" abductees I have
interviewed had similarly depressing family histories[131].
   7. The story of Candy Jones also has what we might call a "negative
relevance" to the abduction accounts.  Because the Controllers did not
establish a hypnotic cover story, or pseudomemory, the true facts of the case
managed to percolate into her conscious mind.  No matter how thorough the post-
hypnotic amnesia, leaks will occur -- hence the need for a false memory, to
fill the gap of recollection.  The CIA learns from its mistakes.  Candy's
hypno-programming broke down in early 1973 -- the year the "alien disguise"
became (if my hypothesis proves correct) standard operating procedure[132].
(Milton Kline accepted the Candy Jones story, but considered the job amateurish
and inconsistent with the best work done at that time[133].  Perhaps the major
fault was the lack of a pseudomemory cover story?)


BASES OF SUSPICION

   "Underground base" rumors are as hot as jalapenos in the UFO field right
now, and several of these stories involve abductions.
   For example, a sideshow of the famous Bentwaters UFO case involves the
abduction of an airman named Larry Warren to an underground cavity beneath the
military base.  There, while in what he later described as "a bit of a drugged
state," he saw aliens and human beings -- military figures -- working side-by-
side[134].
   I have spoken to another abductee, Nancy Wright, who was allegedly taken to
an underground chamber ten miles north of Edwards AFB, California.  As this
was a multiple-witness event, and Ms. Wright has not attempted to capitalize on
the story for financial gain, I tend to credit her story[135].  According to
abduction researcher Miranda Parks, an elderly couple living in the vicinity
was also abducted in an exactly similar fashion[136].
   In 1979, Paul Bennewitz and Leo Sprinkle researched a particularly
controversial abduction involving a young woman (name unrevealed) who was
apparently taken to a facility where aliens processed fluids and body parts
from a cattle mutilation.  This investigation seems to have led to the
government harassment of Bennewitz, in which some form of mind control (or, as
I have previously referred to it, "electronic GASLIGHT") may have played a
part[137].
   How do we account for these tales of alleged alien skullduggery carried out
in conjunction with the military?  I, for one, cannot credit the generally-
unsubstantiated tales of "cosmic conspiracy" now promulgated by ex-intelligence
agents such as John Lear and William Cooper.  While I cannot assert insincerity
on the part of these men, I often wonder if they have been used as conduits --
witting or unwitting -- in a sophisticated disinformation scheme.
   A simpler, though no less chilling, explanation for the "base" abductions
may be found in the story of Dr. Louis Jolyon ("boB") West, now notorious for
his participation in MKULTRA experiments with LSD[138].  Inspired by VIOLENCE
AND THE BRAIN (a book by Drs. Frank ("Bob") Ervin and Vernon H. ("BoB") Mark
which ascribed inner city turmoil to a "genetic defect" within rebellious
blacks), West proposed, in 1973, a Center for the Study and Reduction of
Violence, where potentially violent individuals could be dealt with
prophylactically.  ["I was cured, all right." - A CLOCKWORK ORANGE  -jpg]
   And who were these individuals?  According to West's proposal, the note-
worthy factors indicating a violent predisposition were "sex (male), age
(youthful), ethnicity (black) and urbanicity."  How to deal with them?  "...by
implanting tiny electrodes deep within the brain, electrical activity can be
followed in areas that cannot be measured from the surface of the scalp...it is
even possible to record bioelectrical changes in the brains of freely-moving
subjects, through the use of remote monitoring techniques..."  By monitoring
the subjects' EEGs remotely, potentially violent episodes could be identified.
   For our purposes, the most significant aspect of this proposal had to do
with location.  In a secret communication to Dr. J.M. ("BoB") Stubblebine,
director of the California State Department of Health (fortunately, this
missive was "leaked" to the public), West disclosed that he intended to house
his Center in an abandoned Nike missile base, whose location was accessible
yet relatively remote.  "The site is securely fenced," West wrote.  "Compara-
tive studies could be carried out there, in an isolated but convenient
location, of experimental model programs, for the alteration of undesirable
behavior."[139]
   Public outcry stopped these plans.  But was this scheme truly eliminated?
Or was it merely modified, stripped (temporarily) of its overtly racial
overtones and relocated to some less-accessible spot?
   One thing is certain: A CIA "spy-chiatrist" favored secret behavior control
experimentation in a remote military installation.  Perhaps someone within the
espionage establishment's mind-modification divisions still thinks highly of
the idea.  If so, the disposal problem would once again rear its ugly head,
should "visitors" to these installations ever reappear in outside society.
Again, a hypno-programmed cover story -- the less believable, the better --
would prove invaluable.


THE SCANDINAVIAN CONNECTION

   Many books have been written about abductees, yet few exist about the
victims of mind control.  I cannot understand this situation; the reality of
UFOs is still controversial, yet the existence of mind control was verified
in two (heavily compromised) congressional investigations and in thousands of
FOIA documents.  Nevertheless, the abductees find many a sympathetic ear, while
those few who dare to proclaim themselves the victims of known government
programs rarely find anyone to hear them out.  Our prejudices on this score are
regrettable, for if we listened to the "controllees" we would hear many details
strikingly similar to those mentioned by UFO abductees.
   Two cases in point: Martti Koski and Robert Naeslund.
   Koski, a Finnish citizen, claims to have been a victim of mind control
experimentation while visiting Canada.  Shortly after his experience began, he
attempted to broadcast his situation to the world and draw attention to his
plight.  Few listened.  Many of his details were bizarre, and not being a
native speaker of English, he could not express himself convincingly to those
he approached for help.  Yet many aspects of his story correspond closely to
known details of MKULTRA and related programs.
   Naeslund, a Swedish citizen, tells a similar story.  Moreover, his claims
were backed by special evidence: X-rays revealed an implant in his brain.
Naeslund actually went to the extreme of having his implant tested by
electronic technicians employed by Hewlett-Packard.  A Greek surgeon performed
the necessary trepanation to remove the device.
   Many aspects of the Koski and Naeslund stories correspond to my hypothesis.
Koski, for example, was at one point told that the doctors afflicting him were
actually "aliens from Sirius."  At another point, he was led to believe that
he was under direction of "the Lord."  (As I previously indicated, manipulation
of religious imagery could help induce anti-social behavior; the subject's
super-ego can be nullified if he believes that he follows commands from on
high.  Such manipulation may explain the more bizarre aspects of Betty
Andreasson Luca's abduction[140].)
   Naeslund's implant was originally placed through his nasal cavity.  He first
realized that something terrible had happened to him after an experience of
missing time, followed by an INEXPLICABLE NOSEBLEED.
   This detail will be instantly familiar to anyone who has studied abductions;
I have encountered it in my own conversations with abductees.  For an excellent
example in the UFO literature, I refer the reader to the case of Susan Ransted,
as detailed in Kevin D. Randle's THE UFO CASEBOOK[141]; the background of
alleged contactee Diane Tessman is also noteworthy in this regard[142].
Intriguingly, I have located a reference in the open literature to the use, in
animal study, of nasally-implanted electrodes for the measurement of electro-
magnetic radiation effects[143].
   There are other claimed mind control victims bearing evidence of implants;
note, especially, the fascinating case of James Petit, a CIA-connected pilot
and alleged brainwashing alumnus; X-rays of his cranium have revealed abductee-
style implants -- fitting, perhaps, since his body bears abductee-style scars.
[144]  Conversely, certain abductees will, if allowed a thorough and sympa-
thetic hearing, deliver testimony strongly agreeing with Koski's narrative.

HELICOPTERS AND DISKS

   The bizarre story of Rex Niles and his sister (not named in news accounts)
may shed interesting light on a variety of abductee cases, particularly that
of Betty and Barney Hill[145].  Niles, the high-rolling owner of a Woodland
Hills defense subcontracting firm (Rex Rep) was fingered by authorities
investigating defense industry kickbacks.  He became an extraordinarily
cooperative witness in the investigation -- until he was targeted by his
enemies, who allegedly used psychoelectronics as harassment.
   The following excerpt from the LOS ANGELES TIMES article on Niles is
particularly compelling:

         He [Niles] produced testimony from his sister, a Simi
      Valley woman who swears that helicopters have repeatedly
      circled her home.  An engineer measured 250 watts of
      microwaves in the atmosphere outside Niles' house and
      found a RADIOACTIVE DISK UNDERNEATH THE DASH OF HIS CAR
      [my italics].
         A former high school friend, Lyn Silverman, claimed
      that her home computer went haywire when Niles stepped
      close to it.

   No aliens in this story -- yet how similar it is to tales of alien
abduction!  The low-flying helicopters, of course, are frequently reported
by abduction victims -- the Betty Andreasson Luca case provides the best-
known example[146].  The haywire electronics equipment is also frequently
encountered in putative abduction cases; I have spoken (independently) to
three women who claimed to have been able to disturb or shut off televisions
and stereos simply by walking past the devices; one woman even claimed she
had switched off her TV simply by pointing at it.
   But the radioactive disc is especially intriguing.  As former FBI agent
Ted Gunderson recently explained to my associate Alexander Constantine,
magnetic radioactive discs have long been used by the clandestine services as
cancer-inducing "silent killers" -- i.e., as tools of assassination.  Not only
that.  The disc calls to mind one little-remembered detail of the Hill case --
the dozen-or-so circular "shiny spots," each the size of a silver dollar, found
on the trunk of her car directly after the abduction.  A compass needle reacted
wildly when placed near these spots.  Could they have marked the location where
an electromagnetic or radioactive device, similar to that found by Niles, was
placed on the car?  (Such a device might have been held to the spot magnetic-
ally, hence the circular impressions.)  If so, then the disorienting EMR could
have helped induce the Hills' "UFO sighting."


THE MILITARY AND MIND CONTROL

   Some time ago, I attended hypnotic regression sessions in which the
subject -- a claimed UFO abductee -- recalled undergoing a mysterious "brain
operation" at a veteran's hospital in California.  The operation was performed
by human beings, not aliens.  Interestingly, this same hospital was mentioned
in two other cases I encountered.  These other claims were not made by
abductees, but by people alleged to have been victims of mind control experi-
mentation.
   One of these claimants, a former Navy SEAL who undertook numerous dangerous
missions in Vietnam, favorably impressed me with the wealth of detail in his
story[147].  This individual -- I've taken to calling him "the trained SEAL"--
had received specialized combat training at a military base in California; he
claims that at one point during this training he was drugged, hypnotized,
possibly placed under some form of electronic control, and subjected to the
extremes of pain/pleasure operant conditioning.  One peculiar detail of his
story concerns the "reward" aspect of the conditioning: When properly
acquiescent, he was given unlimited sexual access to a woman who, the SEAL
avers, was herself the victim of brainwashing.
   Unbelievable as this last claim may seem, I found it oddly resonant when I
later interviewed a prominent abductee in the Southern California area, who
bravely offered me details on a puzzling, albeit quite delicate, incident in
her past.  Still an attractive woman, she recalled for me -- indeed, seemed
strangely compelled to describe -- an early love affair with a young soldier
training at a military base near her home.  She cannot recall the soldier's
name.  All she remembers is that one day he started LIVING AT HER FAMILY'S
HOUSE; she has no memory of how the arrangement began, and her parents have
never felt comfortable discussing the matter.  Although unattracted to this
soldier, she felt compelled to become intimate with him, adopting a pliant,
obeisant attitude that was quite out of character for her.  Later, the soldier
went on to covert missions in Vietnam.
   Of course, a young person's psycho-sexual development is never smooth, and
the incident related above may merely have represented one peculiarly upsetting
bump in that notoriously rough road.  Still, some of the details of this story
-- particularly the parents' attitude, the woman's personality shift, and her
subsequent memory lapses -- are striking, and I treat with respect the abduc-
tee's intuition that this minor enigma in her personal history could, if
properly understood, shed light on her later "missing time" experiences.
   Could the "trained SEAL" have been right?  Was there, IS there, a coterie
of hypno-programmed soldiers conducting particularly hazardous missions?  And
do the programmers have at their disposal a "ladies' auxiliary," so to speak,
of hypnotized camp followers?
   If the SEAL's story stood alone, skeptics could easily dismiss it
(provided they did not sit, as I did, face-to-face with the story's teller,
listening to all the grisly and unsettling details).  But other veterans have
added their voices to this grim tale.  Daniel Sheehan, of the Christic
Institute, claims that his organization has spoken to half-a-dozen individuals
with narratives similar to my SEAL informant.  All had received "processing,"
so to speak, within the context of standard military training; after pro-
gramming and specialized combat instruction by mercenaries, the recruits were
placed "on hold," to be used as situations arose -- and some of those
situations occurred within the United States[148].
   Walter Bowart began his own researches into mind control by placing an ad in
SOLDIER-OF-FORTUNE-style publications, asking for correspondence from veterans
who experienced inexplicable lapses in memory or strange behavior modification
techniques while serving in Vietnam; he received over 100 replies.  Bowart
devoted an entire chapter to one of these respondents -- an Air Force veteran
named David, who ended his four-year tour of duty recalling only that he had
spent the time "having fun, skin diving, laying on the beach, collecting
shells...It never dawned on me until later that I must have DONE something
while I was in the service."  (An obvious example of screen memory.)  He was
also "assigned" a girlfriend whose name he cannot now recall, despite the
length and deep intimacy of the affair[149].  The parallels to the SEAL's story
and the abductee's account should be obvious.
   We even have a confession, of sorts, from a scientist who specialized in one
aspect of this sort of training.  Lt. Commander Thomas ("Bob") Narut, of the
U.S. Naval Hospital at the NATO headquarters in Naples, Florida, admitted
during a lecture in Oslo that recruits in Naples underwent CLOCKWORK-ORANGE-
style behavior modification sessions.  Trainees would be strapped into chairs
with their eyelids clamped open while watching films of industrial accidents
and African circumcision ceremonies -- films frequently used by psychologists
as a means of inducing stress in experimental situations.  Unlike the
protagonist in A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, who learned revulsion at the sight of
violence, Narut's soldiers were taught to accept and enjoy bloodshed, to view
it with equanimity.  Similar techniques were used to dehumanize potential
enemies.  Graduates of this program became, in Narut's words, "hit men and
assassins," to be placed in American embassies throughout the world.
   When questioned by reporters about these claims, the American government
denied the story; Narut -- after a long incommunicado period and apparent
coercion -- later explained to journalists that he had merely spoken
theoretically.  If so, why did he originally describe the behavior modification
procedure as an ongoing program?[150]
   And while it may seem frivolous to return to the subject of abductions after
examining such grim data, I should remind the reader of the many abduction
accounts in which abductees recall being forced to watch certain stress-
inducing motion pictures.  The aliens, it seems, have learned a few lessons
from Dr. Narut.
   Narut, of course, concentrated on selective programming of individual
American soldiers; on the other side of the mind control spectrum, Defense
Department specialists have also concentrated on methods to render entire
enemy battalions "combat ineffective."  Electromagnetic weaponry, intended to
wipe out the aggression of the enemy, is the province of DARPA, under the
direction of Dr. Jack ("Bob" Dobbs) Verona.  These projects remain fairly
mysterious; we do know, however, that one operation, SLEEPING BEAUTY, employed
the services of Dr. Michael ("BoB") Persinger, a scientist who has expressed
interesting views regarding UFOs.
   Persinger discovered a method of using ELF waves to induce the brain's MAST
cells to release histamine; should a battlefield commander wish to subject his
enemy to mass bouts of vomiting, Persinger's trick could do the job even
faster than a Tobe Hooper movie.  The method works on animals.  "The question,"
writes mind control researcher Larry Collins, "is how to get from point A to
point B without violating one of the most rigorous commandments of Government
ethics -- thou shalt not conduct experiments like that on human beings."[151]
   If Collins had studied the record a little more carefully, he might realize
that the government hasn't always regarded this commandment as something
graven in stone.  As Milton Kline put it:

         Ethical factors involved in most research would preclude
      having positive results.  Those ethical factors don't always
      hold with government research.  THE RESEARCH WHICH HAS GIVEN
      REALLY POSITIVE RESULTS HAS NOT BEEN LIMITED BY ETHICAL
      CONSTRAINTS[152].  [my italics]THE ULTIMATE MOTIVE FOR MIND CONTROL

   Hypnosis hard-liners of the Orne school would almost certainly dismiss the
foregoing veterans' accounts of the use of hypnosis, drugs and behavioral
conditioning on American fighting men.  Why, the skeptics would ask, would
anyone attempt to create a "Manchurian Candidate" when the military services,
using entirely conventional means, can create a "Rambo"?  There have always
been recruits for even the most hazardous duties; what need of hypnosis?
   The need, in fact, is absolute.
   The modern battlefield has little place for the traditional soldier.
Advanced weaponry requires an increasing level of technical sophistication,
which in turn requires a cool-headed operator.  But the all-too-human
combatant -- though capable of extraordinary acts of courage under the most
stressful conditions imaginable -- does not possess inexhaustible reserves of
SANG-FROID.  Eventually, breakdowns will occur.  Per-capita psychiatric
casualties have increased dramatically in each successive American conflict.
As Richard Gabriel, the excellent historian of the role of psychiatry in
warfare, writes:

         Modern warfare has become so lethal and so intense that
      only the already insane can endure it...Modern war requiring
      continuous combat will increase the degree of fatigue on the
      soldier to heretofore unknown levels.  Physical fatigue --
      especially the lack of sleep -- will increase the rate of
      psychiatric casualties enormously.  Other factors -- high
      rates of indirect fire, night fighting, lack of food, constant
      stress, large numbers of casualties -- will ensure that the
      number of psychiatric casualties will reach disastrous pro-
      portions.  And the number of casualties will overburden the
      medical structure to the point of collapse.
         The ability to treat psychiatric casualties will all but
      disappear.  There will be no safe forward areas in which to
      treat soldiers debilitated by mental collapse.  The technology
      of modern war has made such locations functionally obsolete...[153]

   According to Gabriel, the military intends to meet this challenge by
creating "the chemical soldier," a designer-drugged zombie in fighting man's
uniform:

         On the battlefields of the future we will witness a true
      clash of ignorant armies, armies ignorant of their own
      emotions and even of the reasons for which they fight.
      Soldiers on all sides will be reduced to fearless chemical
      automatons who fight simply because they can do nothing
      else...Once the chemical genie is out of the bottle, the
      full range of human mental and physical actions become
      targets for chemical control...Today it is already possible
      by chemical or electrical stimulation to increase the
      aggression levels of the human being by stimulating the
      amygdala, a section of the brain known to control aggression
      and rage.  Such "human potential engineering" is already a
      partial reality and the necessary technical knowledge
      increases every day[154].

   While this passage speaks of drugs and electronics, we can safely assume
that the planners of battle would not refrain from using any other promising
technique.
   Gabriel writes primarily of large-scale battle scenarios, but based on
his information, we can fairly deduce that the mind-controlled soldier will
also play a role in the surgical strike, the covert operation, the infiltration
behind enemy lines by units of the Special Forces.  On such missions, United
States personnel have increasingly relied on torture as a means of interro-
gation and intimidation[155], and as such barbarism becomes standard procedure
the American fighting man of the future will need to find within himself
unprecedented reserves of brutality.  Will the average recruit, culled from the
nation's suburbs and reared on traditional ideals, possess such reserves?
   Vietnam proved that the soldier, despite a barrage of propaganda intended to
cloud his discernment, will sense the difference between fighting for legit-
imate defense interests and fighting to protect political hegemony.  To
forestall this realization, or to render it irrelevant, military planners must
withdraw the human combatant and replace him with a new species of warrior.
The soldier of the future will not discern; he will merely do.  He will not be
a butcher; he will be the butcher's KNIFE -- a tool among tools, thoughtless
and effective.
   And it is my contention that to create this soldier of the future, the
controllers will need a continuing program, one designed to test each new
method and combination of methods for conquering the human mind.
   One primary goal of this program must include expanding the human capacity
for stress and violence.  Subjects enrolled in such experimental procedures
will experience pain, and will learn to accept the pain.  Eventually, they will
learn to inflict it, without remorse or even remembrance.  The nation who first
creates this new soldier will possess a decisive advantage on the "conven-
tional" battlefield -- as will the nation which first develops a means of using
mass mind control techniques to disable entire enemy platoons.  [And to placate
whole civilian populations, both those of the enemy and those at home.  -jpg]
This paramount military necessity is the reason why I will never believe any
unconvincing reassurances that our nation's clandestine scientists have fore-
gone or will forego research into behavior modification.  This research will
never be mere history.  What's past is present, and today's covert experiment-
ation will become tomorrow's basic training.
   A prototype of the future warrior may already be with us.  The Navy SEAL
I interviewed spoke in horrifying detail of dismemberment without emotion, of
rape as routine, of killing without affect.  And then FORGETTING THAT HE HAD
KILLED.  Even years later, he could not recall the stories behind many of the
wounds on his own body.  He claims that whenever he would need the services of
the veteran's hospital, doctors would re-hypnotize him shortly after his
admission, while a physician specifically cleared for such work would examine
his medical history, which was highly classified and kept under lock and key.
   According to the SEAL's testimony, his memory block cracked little by
little, as a result of events too complex to recount here.  Finally, years
after Vietnam, he was able to remember what he did.
   Amnesia was a blessing.

                                IV. Abductions

   Press and public now regard abductees as tony curiosities, yet science, for
the most part, still banishes their tales to the domain of the damned, as
Charles Fort defined damnation.  So too with claimed victims of mind control.
The Voice of Authority tells us that MKULTRA belongs to history; like Hasdrubal
and Hitler, it threatened once, but no more.  Anyone insisting otherwise must
be silenced by glib rationalization and selective inattention.
   Yet these two topics -- UFO abductions and mind control -- have more in
common than their mutual ostracization.  The data overlap.  If we could chart
these phenomena on a Venn diagram, we would see a surprisingly large inter-
section between the two circles of information.  It is this overlap I seek to
address.
   Note, however, that I can NOT address all the other interesting and
important issues raised by the UFO abduction experience.  For exmaple, I have
written, admittedly rather vaguely, of nasal implants reported by abductees --
the sort of detail which might place an account in the "high strangeness"
category, and of course, a detail central to my thesis.  But what percentage
of the percipients speak of such implants?  A truly scientific analysis would
provide a figure.  Unfortunately, I haven't the resources to compile a
sufficiently large abductee sample from which one could draw statistics.  Nor
can I make an over-arching qualitative analysis, measuring the value of "high
strangeness" reports against other abductee claims.  All I can do is note the
available literature, and leave the reader to wonder, as I do, whether the
compilers of that literature concentrated on exceptional cases or were biased
in favor of the less fantastic abductee accounts.  I have supplemented readings
of the abduction literature with my own interviews with percipients -- which,
since abductees tend to know other abductees, can give a surprisingly wide view
of the phenomenon.  This view has been broadened still further by my talks and
correspondence with other members of the UFO community.
   Of course, we must recognize the difference between testimony and proof.  No
one can state definitively that abduction reports have a basis in objective
reality (however misperceived).  Ultimately, all we have are stories.  Some of
these stories may be of questionable veracity; others may be contaminated by
investigator bias; many are insufficiently detailed.  No one research paper can
resolve all abduction controversies, and many necessary battles must be fought
on other fields.
   Still, the testimony won't go away -- and we certainly have enough to allow
for comparisons.  I maintain that an unprejudiced overview of abduction reports
in the popular press and the less-familiar material on mind control will
demonstrate a striking correlation.  Once other abduction researchers have been
educated in the ways of MKULTRA (and this paper is intended as an introductory
text) they may note a similar pattern.  If so, we can then begin to write a
revisionist history of the phenomenon.
   The abduction enigma contains within it sub-mysteries that slide into the
mind control scenario with surprising ease, even elegance -- mysteries which
fit the E.T. hypothesis as uncomfortably as a size 10 foot fits into a size 8
shoe.  As we have seen, the MKULTRA thesis explains the reports of abductee
intracerebral implants (particularly reports involving nosebleeds), unusual
scars, "telepathic" communication (i.e., externally induced intracerebral
voices) concurrent with or following the abduction encounter, allegations that
some abductees hear unusual sound effects (similar to those created by the
hemi-synch and cognate devices), haywire electronic devices in abductee homes,
personality shifts, "training films," manipulation of religious imagery, and
missing time.  Needless to say, the thesis of clandestine government experi-
mentation readily accounts for abductee claims of human beings "working" with
the aliens, and for the government harassment that plays so prominent a role in
certain abductee reports.
   Let's look at some more correlations.

   According to Hopkins, "The aliens said 'Fine.  Very good.'  They took the
gun from him; the man [presumably, the captive] got up, walked away, dis-
appeared, and they went on to the next thing."  Obviously, this little drama
had been staged -- a test of some sort.
   I submit that this surreal incident is incomprehensible as either an
example of alien incursion or of "Klass-ical" confabulation.  The scenario
described here EXACTLY parallels numerous experiments in the hypnotic induction
of anti-social action as revealed both in the standard hypnosis literature and
in declassified ARTICHOKE/MKULTRA documents.  For example, compare Hopkins'
account to the following, in which Ludwig Mayer, a prominent German hypnosis
researcher, describes a classic experiment in the hypnotic induction of
criminal action:

         I gave a revolver to an elderly and readily suggestible
      man whom I had just hypnotized.  The revolver had just been
      loaded by Mr. H. with a percussion cap.  I explained to
      [the subject], while pointing to Mr. H., that Mr. H. was a
      very wicked man whom he should shoot to kill.  With great
      determination he took the revolver and fired a shot directly
      at Mr. H.  Mr. H. fell down pretending to be wounded.  I
      then explained to my subject that the fellow was not yet
      quite dead, and that he should give him another bullet,
      which he did without further ado[167].

   Of course, if a conservative hypnosis specialist were asked to comment on
the above account, he would quickly point out that hypnotic suggestions which
work in an experimental situation would not easily succeed outside the lab-
oratory; on some level, the subject will probably sense whether or not he's
playing the game for real[168].  Similarly, a conservative abduction researcher
would, in reviewing Hopkins' material, emphasize the problems inherent in using
testimony derived during regression, where the threat of confabulation lurks.
I'll concede both arguments -- for the moment -- only to insist that they are
beside the point.  The matter of primary importance, the sticking point which
neither Klass nor Hopkins can comfortably confront, is the convergence of
detail between Mayer's hypnosis experiment and the testing event related by
Hopkins' abductee.  WHY ARE THESE TWO STORIES SO SIMILAR?  Did the good Dr.
Mayer take pupils from Sirius?[169].
   Hopkins says he knows of other instances in which abductees found themselves
in similar crucibles.  So do I.
   One person I spoke to can remember (SANS hypnosis) being handed a gun inside
a ziplock baggy and receiving instructions that she will have to use this
weapon "on a job."  Early in my interviews with her (and with no prompting from
me) she recited an apparent cue drilled into her consciousness by the "enti-
ties" (as she calls them): "When you see the light, do it tonight," followed by
the command, "Execute."  (One can only speculate as to how such commands would
be used in the field; we will discuss later the use of photovoltaic hypnotic
induction.)  Though her personal feelings toward firearms are decidedly
negative, she vivdly describes periods in her "everyday" life when she feels an
uncharacteristic, yet overpowering urge to be near a gun -- a quasi-sexual
desire to pick one up and touch the metal[170].
   She is not alone.  Another has been so affected by gun fever that he became
a security guard, just to be near the things[171].  The abductees I have spoken
to connect this sudden surge of Ramboism to the UFO experience.  But I suggest
that the UFO experience may be merely a cover story for another type of
training entirely.
   One of the primary goals of BLUEBIRD, ARTICHOKE, and MKULTRA was to
determine whether mind control could be used to faciliate "executive action"--
i.e., assassination[172].
   It isn't difficult to imagine the media's reaction if a public figure were
murdered by someone acting at the behest of the "space brothers."  Who would
dare to speak of conspiracy under such circumstances?  The hidden controllers
could choose a myth structure that conform's to the abductee's personality,
then pose as higher beings, who would whisper violence into the ear of the
percipient.  Using this ruse, the trick that scientists such as Ludwig Mayer
could perform in the lab might now be accomplished in the field.  As
Estabrooks' associate Jack Tracktir (professor of hypnotherapy at Baylor
University) explained to John Marks, anti-social acts can be induced with
"no conscience involved" once the proper pretext has been created[173].


"THEY WILL THINK IT'S FLYING SAUCERS"

   Jenny Randles contributes an anecdote from Great Britain which dovetails
nicely with this hypothesis.
   In 1965, "Margary" (a pseudonym) lived in Birmingham with her husband, who
one night told her to prepare for a "shock and a test."  As Randles describes
what she calls a "rogue case":

         They got into his car and drove off, although her memory
      of the trip became hazy and confused and she does not know
      where they went.  Then she was in a room that was dimly lit
      and there were people standing around a long table or flat
      bed.  She was out on it and seemed "drugged" and unable to
      resist.  The most memorable of the men was tall and thin with
      a long nose and white beard.  He had thick eyebrows and
      supposedly said to Margary, "Remember the eyebrows, honey."
      A strange medical examination, using odd equipment, was
      performed on her.

   Both the husband and the scientists, using (apparently) hypnotic techniques,
flooded her mind with images that, she was told, would be understood only in
the future.  According to Randles, "At one point one of the 'examiners' in the
room said to Margary in a tone that made it seem as if he were amused, "THEY
WILL THINK IT'S FLYING SAUCERS."  The husband also revealed that he had a
second identity.  After the abduction, this husband (am I going too far to
assume his employment with MI6 or some cognate agency?) left, never to be seen
again[174].  Margary did not recall the abduction until 1978.
   This affair can only baffle a researcher who insists on fitting all
abduction accounts into the ET hypothesis; once we free ourselves from that
set of assumptions, explanations come easily.  I interpret this incident as a
case in which the controllers applied the flying saucer cover story sloppily,
or to an insufficiently receptive subject.  If my thesis is correct, the UFO
"hypnotic hoax" technique would still have been fairly new in 1965, particular-
ly outside the United States; perhaps the manipulators hadn't yet got the hang
of it.  The odd comment about the scientist's eyebrows may refer to an item of
disguise donned for the occasion.  The unscrupulous hypnotist, unsure about his
ability to induce an impenetrable amnesia -- and mindful of the price paid by
his forerunners in mesmeric criminality[175] -- would understandably want to
hedge his bets; by indulging in the British penchant for theatrics, he could
further protect his anonymity.
   A similar incident was brought to my attention by researcher Robert Durant.
The relevant excerpt of his letter follows:

         Now I want to turn to a case that I have been investigating
      for several months.  The subject is an abductee.  Standard
      abduction scenario.  Twice regressed under hypnosis, the first
      time by a well-known abduction researcher, the second time by
      a psychologist with parapsychology connections.
         In the course of many hours of listening to the subject, I
      discovered that she has had close personal contact over a long
      period of time with several individuals who have federal
      intelligence connections.  She was hypnotized many years ago
      as part of a TV program devoted to hypnosis.  Her abductions
      began shortly after she attended several long sessions at a
      laboratory where, ostensibly, she was being tested for ESP
      abilities.  Two other people who were "tested" at this same
      laboratory have also had abductions.  All three were told by
      the lab to join a local UFO group.  During her abductions, the
      principal alien spoke to the subject in the English language
      in a normal manner, not via telepathy.  She recognized the
      voice, which was at one time that of her very close friend of
      yesteryear who was then and is now employed by the CIA.  The
      other voice was that of an individual who works in Washington,
      has what I will call very strong federal connections as well
      as a finger in every ufological pie, and who just happened to
      bump into her at the aforementioned laboratory.  He also
      anticipated, in the course of telephone conversations, her
      abductions.  When the subject confronted him about this and
      the voice, he claimed to be psychic. (!)[176]

   The "ESP" connection is suggestive; the MKULTRA documents betray an
astonishing interest on the part of the intelligence agencies in matters
parapsychological.
   Some researchers would object that examples such as this are rare; most
abductions contain no such overt indications of intelligence involvement.
But have investigators looked for them?  As mentioned in the introduction,
a false dichotomy limits much ufological thought; as long as the abduction
argument swings between the ET hypothesis and purely psychological theories,
researchers will not recognize the relevance of certain key items of back-
ground data.

GLIMPSES OF THE CONTROLLERS

   In an interview with me, a northern-California abducteee -- call him "Peter"
-- reported an experience which was conducted NOT by a small grey alien, but by
a human being.  The percipient called this man a "doctor."  He gave a descrip-
tion of this individual, and even provided a drawing.
   Some time after I gathered this information, a southern-California abductee
told me her story -- which included a description of this very same "doctor."
The physical details were so strikingly similar as to erase coincidence.  This
woman is a leading member of a Los Angeles-based UFO group; three other women
in this group report abduction encounters with the same individual[177].
   Perhaps those three women were fantasists, attaching themselves to another's
narrative.  But my northern informant never met these people.  Why did he
describe the same "doctor"?
   One of the abductees I have dealt with insisted, under hypnosis, that her
abduction experience brought her to a certain house in the Los Angeles area.
She was able to provide directions to the house, even though she had no
conscious memory of ever being there.  I later learned that this house is
indeed occupied by a scientist who formerly (and perhaps currently) conducted
clandestine research on mind control technology.
   This same abductee described a clandestine brain operation of some sort she
underwent in childhood.  The neurosurgeon was a human being, not an alien.
She even recalled the name.  (Note: This is not the same individual referred to
above.)  When I heard the name, it meant nothing to me -- but later I learned
that there really was a scientist of that name who specialzed in electrode
implant research.
   Licia Davidson is a thoughtful and articulate abductee, whose fascinating
story closely parallels many found in the abductee literature -- except for one
unusual detail.  In an interview with me, described an unsettling recollection
of a human being, dressed normally, holding a black BoX with a protruding
antenna.  This odd snippet of memory did NOT coincide with the general thrust
of her abduction narrative.  Could this remembrance represent an all-too-brief
segment of accurately-perceived reality interrupting her hypnotically-induced
"screen memory"?  Peter clearly recalls seeing a similar BoX during his
abduction.
   Interestingly, Licia resides in the Los Angeles suburb of Tujunga Canyon, a
prominent spot on the abduction map; Many of the abductees I have spoken to
first had unusual experiences while living in this area.  Near Tujunga Canyon,
in Mt. Pacifico, is a hidden former Nike missile base; more than one abductee
has described odd, seemingly inexplicable military activity around this
location[178].  The reader will recall the connection of Nike missile bases to
the disturbing story of Dr. L. Jolyon ("BoB") West, a veteran of MKULTRA.


CULTS

   Some abductees I have spoken to have been directed to join certain
religious/philosophical sects.  These cults often bear close examination.
   The leaders of these groups tend to be "ex"-CIA operatives, or Special
Forces veterans.  They are often linked through personal relations, even
though they espouse widely varying traditions.  I have heard unsettling
reports that the leaders of some of these groups have used hypnosis, drugs,
or "mind machines" on their charges.  Members of these cults have reported
periods of missing time during ceremonies or "study periods."
   I strongly urge abduction researchers to examine closely any small "occult"
groups an abductee might join.  For example, one familiar leader of the UFO
fringe -- a man well-known for his espousal of the doctrine of "love and light"
-- is Virgil Armstrong, a close personal friend of General John Singlaub, the
notorious Iran-Contra player, who recently headed the neo-fascist World Anti-
Communist League.  Armstrong, who also happens to be an ex-Green Beret and
former CIA operative, figured into my inquiry in an interesting fashion: An
abductee of my acquaintance was told -- by her "entities," naturally -- to seek
out this UFO spokesman and join his "sky-watch" activities, which, my source
alleges, included a mass channelling session intended to send debilitating
"negative" vibrations to Constantine Chernenko, then the leader of the Soviet
Union.  Of course, intracerebral voices may have a purely psychological origin,
so Armstrong can hardly be held to task for the abductee's original "direct-
ive."[179]  Still, his past associations with military intelligence inevitably
bring disturbing possibilities to mind.
   Even more ominous than possible ties between UFO cults and the intelligence
community are the cults' links with the shadowy I AM group, founded by Guy
Ballard in the 1930s[180].  According to researcher David Stupple, "If you look
at the contactee groups today, you'll see that most of the stable, larger ones
are actually neo-I AM groups, with some sort of tie to Ballard's organization."
[181]  This cult, therefore, bears investigation.
   Guy Ballard's "Mighty I AM Religious Activity," grew, in large part, out of
William Dudley Pelly's Silver Shirts, an American NAZI organization[182].
Although Ballard himself never openly proclaimed NAZI affiliation, his movement
was tinged with an extremely right-wing political philosophy, and in secret
meetings he "decreed" the death of President Franklin Roosevelt[183].  The I AM
philosophy derived from Theosophy, and in this author's estimation bears a
more-than-cursory resemblance to the Theosophically-based teachings that
informed the proto-NAZI German occult lodges[184].
   After the war, Pelley (who had been imprisoned for sedition during the
hostilities) headed an occult-oriented organization call Soulcraft, based in
Noblesville, Indiana.  Another Soulcraft employee was the controversial
contactee George Hunt Williamson (real name: Michel d'Obrenovic), who co-
authored UFOs CONFIDENTIAL with John McCoy, a proponent of the theory that a
Jewish banking conspiracy was preventing disclosure of the solution to the UFO
mystery[185].  Later, Williamson founded the I AM-oriented Brotherhood of the
Seven Rays in Peru[186].  Another famed contactee, George Van Tassel, was
associated with Pelley and with the notoriously anti-Semitic Reverend Wesley
Swift (founder of the group which metamorphosed into the Aryan nations).[187]
   The most visible offspring of I AM is Elizabeth Clare Prophet's Church
Universal and Triumphant, a group best-known for its massive arms caches in
underground bunkers.  CUT was recently exposed in COVERT ACTION INFORMATION
BULLETIN as a conduit of CIA funds[188], and according to researcher John
Judge, has ties to organizations allied to the World Anti-Communist League[189]
Prophet is becoming involved in abduction research and has sponsored present-
ations by Budd Hopkins and other prominent investigators.  In his book THE
ARMSTRONG REPORT: ETs AND UFOs: THEY NEED US, WE DON'T NEED THEM[sic][190],
Virgil Armstrong directs troubled abductees toward Prophet's group.  (Perhaps
not insignificantly, he also suggests that abductees plagued by implants
alleviate their problem by turning to "the I AM force" within.[191])
   Another UFO channeller, Frederick Von Mierers, has promulgated both a cult
with a strong I AM orientation[192] and an apparent con-game involving over-
appraised gemstones.  Mierers is an anti-Semite who contends that the Holocaust
never happened and that the Jews control the world's wealth.
   UFORUM is a flying saucer organization popular with Los Angeles-area
abductees; its founder is Penny Harper, a member of a radical Scientology
breakaway group which connects the teachings of L. Ron ("Bob") Hubbard with
pronouncements against "The Illuminati" (a mythical secret society) and other
BETES NOIR familiar from right-wing conspiracy literature.  Harper directs
members of her group to read THE SPOTLIGHT, an extremist tabloid (published by
Willis Carto's Liberty Lobby) which denies the reality of the Holocaust and
posits a "Zionist" scheme to control the world[193].
   More than one unwary abductee has fallen in with groups such as those listed
above.  It isn't difficult to imagine how some of these questionable groups
might mold an abductee's recollection of his experience -- and perhaps help
direct his future actions.
   Some modern abductees, with otherwise-strong claims, claim encounters with
blond, "Nordic" aliens reminiscent of the early contactee era.  Surely, the
"Nordic" appearance of these aliens sprang from the dubious spiritual tradition
of Van Tassell, Ballard, Pelley, McCoy, etc.  Why, then, are some modern
abductees seeing these very same other-worldly UEBERMENSCHEN?
   One abductee of my acquaintance claims to have had beneficial experiences
with these "blond" aliens -- who, he believes, came originally from the
Pleiades.  Interestingly, in the late 1960s, the psychopathically anti-Semitic
Rev. Wesley Swift predicted this odd twist in the abduction tale.  In a
broadcast "sermon," he spoke at length about UFOs, claiming that there were
"good" aliens and "bad" aliens.  The good ones, he insisted, were tall, blond
Aryans -- WHO HAILED FROM THE PLEIADES.  He made this pronouncement long before
the current trends in abduction lore.
   Could some of the abductions be conducted by an extreme right-wing element
within the national security establishment?  Disagreeable as the possibility
seems, we should note that the "lunatic right" is represented in all other
walks of life; certainly hard-rightists have taken positions within the
military-intelligence complex as well.

GROUNDS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH

   John Keel's ground-breaking OPERATION TROJAN HORSE, written in an era when
abductees still came under the category of "contactees," includes the following
intriguing data, gleaned from Keel'a extensive field work:

         Contactees often find themselves suddenly miles from home
      without knowing how they got there.  They either have induced
      amnesia, wiping out all memory of the trip, or they were taken
      over by some means and made the trip in a blacked-out state.
      Should they encounter a friend on the way, the friend would
      probably note that their eyes seemed glassy and their behavior
      seemed peculiar.  But if the friend spoke to them, he might
      receive a curt reply.
         In the language of the contactees this process is called
      being used...I have known silent contactees to disappear from
      their homes for long periods, and when they returned, they
      had little or no recollection of where they had been.  One
      girl sent me a postcard from the Bahama Islands -- which
      surprised me because I knew she was very poor.  When she
      returned, she told me that she had only one memory of the
      trip.  She said she remembered getting off a jet at an air-
      port -- she souldn't recall getting on the jet or making the
      trip -- and there "Indians" met her and took her baggage...
      The next thing she knew she was back home again[194].

   Puzzling indeed -- unless one has read THE CONTROL OF CANDY JONES, which
speaks of Candy's "blacked out" periods, during which she travelled to Taiwan
as a CIA courier, adopting her second personality.  The mind control explana-
tion perfectly solves all the mysteries in the above excerpt -- save, perhaps,
the odd remark about "Indians."
   Hickson and Mendez' UFO CONTACT AT PASCAGOULA contains the interesting
information that Charles Hickson awakes at night feeling that he is on the
verge of re-awakening some terribly important memory connected with his
encounter -- yet ostensibly he can account for every moment of his adventure.
   Hickson also received a letter from an apparent abductee who claims that
the grey aliens are actually automatons of some sort -- perhaps an unconscious
recognition of the unreality of the hypnotically-induced "cover story."[195]
In this light, the film version of COMMUNION -- whose screenplay was written
by Whitley Strieber -- takes on a new interest: The abduction sequences contain
inexplicable images indicating that the "greys" are really props, or masks.
   COMMUNION and TRANSFORMATION contain passages detailing what seems to be a
hazily-recalled Candy-Jones-style espionage adventure, in which Strieber was
shanghaied by a "coach" and a "nurse" (both human beings) who apparently
drugged him[196].  Recall the example of Keel's informants.  Moreover,
TRANSFORMATION contains lengthy descriptions of alien beings working in
apparent collusion with human beings.
   Abductee Christa Tilton also recalls both human beings and aliens playing
a part in her experience.  Ever since her abduction, she claims, she has been
"shadowed" by a mysterious federal agent she calls John Wallis[197].  Christa's
husband, Tom Adams, has confirmed Wallis' existence[198].
   In his REPORT ON COMMUNION, Ed Conroy -- who seems to have become a
participant in, and not merely an observer of, the phenomenon -- describes
harassment by helicopters, which as we have already noted, seems to be quite
a common occurrence in abductee situations[199].  Researchers blithely assume
that these incidents represent governmental attempts to spy on UFO percipients.
But this assertion is ridiculous.  Helicopters are extremely expensive to
operate, and the engines of espionage have perfected numerous alternative
methods to gather information.  After all, we now have a fairly extensive
bibliography of FBI, CIA, and military efforts to spy on numerous movements
favoring domestic social change.  Why have no veterans of CHAOS or COINTELPRO
(either victim or victimizer) spoken of helicopters?  Obviously the choppers
serve some other purpose beyond mere surveillance.  One possibility might be
the propagation of electromagnetic waves which might affect the perceptions/
behaviors of an implanted individual.  (Indeed, I have heard rumors of heli-
copters being used in electronic "crowd control" operations in Vietnam and
elsewhere; alas, the information is far from hard.)
   Contactee Eldon Kerfoot has written of his suspicions that human mani-
pulators, not aliens, may be the ultimate puppeteers engineering his
experiences.  He describes a sudden compulsion to kill a fellow veteran of
the Korean conflict -- a man Kerfoot had no logical reason to distrust or
dislike, yet whom he "sensed" to have been a traitor to his country.  For-
tunately, the assassination never materialized[200].  But the situation exactly
parallels incidents described in released ARTICHOKE documents concerning the
remote hypnotic induction of anti-social behavior.
   One last speculation:
   Renato Vesco's INTERCEPT BUT DON'T SHOOT[201] outlines a fascinating
scenario for the "secret weapon" hypothesis of UFOs.  Vesco points out that
if these devices are one day to be used in a superpower conflict [or in
suppression of civilian revolution, against, say, S&L taxation  -jpg], the
attacking power would be well-served by the myth of the UFO as an extra-
terrestrial craft, for the besieged nation would not know the true nature of
its opponent.  Perhaps, then, one purpose of the UFO abductions is to engender
and maintain the legend of the little grey aliens.  For the hidden manipula-
tors, the abductions could be, in and of themselves, a propaganda coup.


FINAL THOUGHTS

   I do not insist dogmatically on the scenario that I have outlined.  I do not
wish to dissuade abduction researchers from exploring other avenues -- indeed,
I strongly encourage such work to continue.  Nor can I easily account for some
aspects of the abduction narratives -- for example, any suggestions I could
offer concerning the reports of genetic experimentation would be extremely
speculative.
   But I DO insist on a fair hearing of this hypothesis.  Criticism is
encouraged; that which does not destroy my thesis will make it stronger.  I ask
only that my critics refrain from intellectual laziness; mere differences in
world-view do not constitute a valid attack.  God is found in the details.
   I recognize the dangers inherent in making this thesis public.  New and
distressing abductee confabulations may result.  I would prefer that the
audience for this paper be restricted to abduction RESEARCHERS, not victims,
who might be unduly influenced.  However, in a society that prides itself on
ostensibly free press, such restrictions are unthinkable.  Therefore, I can
only beg any abduction victims who might read this paper to attempt a super-
human objectivity.  The thesis I have outlined is promising, and (should
trepanation ever provide us with an example of an actual abductee implant)
susceptible of proof.  But mine is not the only hypothesis.  The abductee's
unrewarding task is to report what he or she has experienced as truthfully as
possible, untainted by outside speculation.
   Whether or not future investigation proves UFO abductions to be a product
of mind control experimentation, I feel that this paper has, at least,
provided evidence of a serious danger facing those who hold fast to the ideals
of individual freedom.  We cannot long ignore this menace.
   A spectre haunts the democratic nations -- the spectre of TECHNOFASCISM.
All the powers of the espionage empire and the scientific establishment have
entered into an unholy alliance to evoke this spectre: Psychiatrist and spy,
Dulles and Delgado, microwave specialists and clandestine operators.
   A mind is a terrible thing to waste -- and a worse thing to commandeer.

                                    NOTES

      1. Budd Hopkins, MISSING TIME (New York: Richard Marek Publishers, 1981)
and INTRUDERS (New York: Random House, 1987).
      2. Whitley Strieber, COMMUNION (New York: Beech Tree Books, 1987).
      3. Cannon, "Psychiatric Abuse of UFO Witness," UFO magazine, vol. 3,
no. 5 (December, 1988)
      4. Philip Klass, UFO ABDUCTIONS: A DANGEROUS GAME (Buffalo: Prometheus
Books, 1988).  Klass makes some sharp observations, which are undercut by his
refusal to interview abductees directly.  The work has no footnotes and
depends heavily on the work of Dr. Martin "Bob" Orne -- of whom more anon.
      5. See bibliography.
      6. New York: Bantam Books, 1979.
      7. See generally PROJECT MKULTRA, THE CIA'S PROGRAM OF RESEARCH IN
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION, joint hearing before the Select Committee on Health and
Scientific Research of the Committee on Human Resources, Unites States Senate
(Washington: Government Printing Office, 1977).
      8. Robert Eringer, "Secret Agent Man," ROLLING STONE, 1985.
      9. John Marks interview with Victor Marchetti (Marks files, available at
the National Security Archives, Washington, D.C.).
      10. In an interview with John Marks, hypnosis expert Milton Kline, a
veteran of clandestine experimentation in this field, averred that his work
for the government continued.  Since the interview took place in 1977, years
after the CIA allegedly halted mind control research, we must conclude either
that the CIA lied, or that another agency continued the work.  In another
interview with Marks, former Air Force-CIA liaison L. Fletcher Prouty con-
firmed that the Department of Defense ran studies either in conjunction with
or parallel to those operated by the CIA.  (Marks files.)
      11. Estabrooks, HYPNOSIS (New York: E.P. Dutton & Co., Inc., 1957
[revised edition]), 13-14.
      12. A copy of this letter can be found in the Marks files.
      13. Estabrooks attracted an eclectic group of friends, including J.
Edgar Hoover and Alan Watts.
      14. Interview with daughter Doreen Estabrooks, Marks files, Washington,
D.C.
      15. Martin A. Lee and Bruce Shlain, ACID DREAMS (New York: Grove Press,
1985) 3-4; Marks, THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE", 6-8
      16. Marks, ibid. 4-6.
      17. Edward Hunter, BRAINWASHING IN RED CHINA (New York: Vanguard Press,
1951.).  Hunter invented the term "brainwashing" in a September 24, 1950 Miami
NEWS article.
      18. "Japan's Germ Warfare Experiments," THE GLOBE AND MAIL (Toronto),
May 19, 1982.
      19. Walter Bowart, OPERATION MIND CONTROL (New York: Dell, 1978), 191-2,
quoting Warren Commission documents.  We cannot fairly derive from this state-
ment a sanguine attitude about PRESENT Soviet capabilities; in this field,
even outdated technology suffices for mischief.
      20. Marks, THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE", 60-61.  A folk
entymology has it that the "MK" of MKULTRA stands for "Mind Kontrol."  Accord-
ing to Marks, TSS prefixed the cryptonyms of all its projects with these
initials.  Note, though, that MKULTRA was preceded by a still-mysterious TSS
program called QKHILLTOP.
      21. Marks, THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE", 224-229.  Seven
MKULTRA subprojects were continued, under TSS supervision, as MKSEARCH.  This
project ended in 1972.  CIA apologists often proclaim that "brainwashing"
research ceased in either 1962 or 1972; these blandishments refer to the TSS
projects, not to the ORD work, which remains TERRA INCOGNITA for independent
researchers.  Marks discovered that the ORD research was so voluminous that
retrieving documents via FOIA would have proven unthinkably expensive.
      22. For a description of the research into parapsychology, see Ronald
M. McRae's MIND WARS (New York: St. Martin's Press, 1984).  The best book
available on a subject which awaits a truly authoritative text.
      23. Abduction researcher and hypnotherapist Miranda Park, of Lancaster,
California, reports that she has viewed such anomalies in abductee MRI scans.
See also Whitley Strieber, TRANSFORMATION (New York: Beech Tree Books, 1988)
246-247. At this writing, both Strieber and Hopkins report initially promising
results in their efforts to document the presence of these "extras" in
abductees.
      24. Allegedly, the experiment took place in 1964.  However, in WERE WE
CONTROLLED? (New Hyde Park, NY: University Books, 1967), the pseudonymous
"Lincoln Lawrence" makes an interesting argument (on page 36) that the
demonstration took place some years earlier.
      25. New York: Harper and Row, 1969.  Much of Delgado's work was funded
by the Office of Naval Intelligence, a common conduit for CIA funds during the
1950s and '60s.  (Gordon Thomas' JOURNEY INTO MADNESS (New York: Bantam, 1989)
misleadingly implies that CIA interest in Delgado's work began in 1972.)
      26. J.M.R. "Bob" Delgado. "Intracerebral Radio Stimulation and Recording
in Completely Free Patients," PSYCHOTECHNOLOGY (Robert L. Schwitzgebel and
Ralph K. Schwitzgebel, editors; New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1973):
195.
      27. David Krech, "Controlling the Mind Controllers," THINK 32 (July-
August), 1966.
      28. Delgado, PHYSICAL CONTROL OF THE MIND
      29. Delgado, "Intracerebral Radio Stimulation and Recording in Completely
free patients," 195.
      30. Note, for example, Charles Hickson's account of the Pascagoula
Incident.  Charles Hickson and William Mendez, UFO CONTACT AT PASCOGOULA
(Tuscon: Wendelle C. Stevens, 1983).
      31. John Ranleigh, THE AGENCY (New York: Simon and Shuster, 1986): 208.
Marchetti casts this story in the form of an amusing anecdote: After much time
and expense, a cat was suitably trained and prepared -- only, on its first
assignment, to be run over by a taxi.  Marchetti neglects to point out that
nothing stopped the Agency from getting another cat.  Or from using a human
being.
      32. Of course, this suggestion raises the knotty question of whether the
abductees suffer from a form of schizophrenia, which may also be characterized
by "voices."  I refer the reader to the work of Hopkins, Strieber, Thomas
Bullard, and others who have described the difficulties of ascribing all
abductions to psychotic states.
      33. Alan W. Scheflin and Edward M. Opton, Jr., THE MIND MANIPULATORS
(London: Paddington Press, 1978), 347.
      34. Thomas, JOURNAY INTO MADNESS, 276.
      35. James Olds, "Hypothalamic Substrates of Reward," PHYSIOLOGICAL
REVIEWS, 1962, 42:554; "Emotional Centers in the Brain," SCIENCE JOURNAL,
1967, 3 (5).
      36. Vernon Mark and Frank Ervin, VIOLENCE AND THE BRAIN (New York:
Harper and Row, 1970), chapter 12, excerpted in INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS AND THE
FEDERAL ROLE IN BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION, prepared by the Staff of the Subcom-
mittee on Constitutional Rights of the Committee of the Judiciary, United
States Senate (Washington: Government Printing Office, 1974).
      37. John Lilly, THE SCIENTIST (Berkeley, Ronin Publishing, 1988 [revised
edition]), 90.  Monkeys allowed to stimulate themselves continually via ESB
brought themselves to orgasm once every three minutes, sixteen hours a day.
Scientific gatherings throughout the world saw motion pictures of these
experiments, which surely made spectacular cinema.
      38. Scheflin and Opton, THE MIND MANIPULATORS, 336-337.  Heath even
monitored his patient's brain responses during the subject's first heterosexual
encounter.  Such is the nature of the brave new world before us.
      39. Robert L. Schwitzgebel and Richard M. Bird, "Sociotechnical Design
Factors in Remote Instrumentation with Humans in Natural Environments,"
BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS AND INSTRUMENTATION, 1970, 2, 99-105.
      40. Thomas, JOURNEY INTO MADNESS, 277.  In the BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS
AND INSTRUMENTATION article referenced above, Schwitzgebel details how the
radio signals may be fed into a telephone via a modem and thus analyzed by a
computer anywhere in the world.
      41. Scheflin and Opton, THE MIND MANIPULATORS, 347-349.
      42. Louis Tackwood and the Citizen's Research and Investigation Commit-
tee, THE GLASS HOUSE TAPES (New York: Avon, 1973), 226.
      43. Perry London, BEHAVIOR CONTROL (New York: Harper and Row, 1969), 145
      44. Scheflin and Opton, THE MIND MANIPULATORS, 351-353; Tackwood, THE
GLASS HOUSE TAPES, 228.
      45. "Beepers in kids' heads could stop abductors," Las Vegas SUN, Oct.
27, 1987.
      46. Lilly, THE SCIENTIST, 91.
      47. Marks, THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE", 151-154.
      48. Interestingly, Lilly has come out of the closet as a sort of proto-
Strieber; THE SCIENTIST recounts his close interaction with alien (though not
necessarily extraterrestrial) forces which he labels "solid state entities."
      49. The story of Deep Trance, an MKULTRA "insider" who provided
invaluable information, is somewhat involved.  I do not know who Trance is/was
and Marks may not know either.  He contacted Trance via the writer of an
article published shortly before research on THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN
CANDIDATE" began, addressing his informant "Dear Source whose anonymity I
respect."  I respect it too -- hence my reticence to name the aforementioned
article, which may mark a trail to Trance.  The fact that I have not followed
this trail would not prevent others from doing so.  [And if Trance were a
CIA disinformation source a la William Cooper, this is precisely the behavior
they would count on.  -jpg]
      50. London, BEHAVIOR CONTROL, 139.
      51. See generally, UFO magazine, Vol. 4, No. 2; especially the
interesting contribution by Whitley Strieber.
      52. Lawrence, WERE WE CONTROLLED?, 36-37; Anita Gregory, "Introduction
to Leonid L. Vasilev's EXPERIMENTS IN DISTANT INFLUENCE," PSYCHIC WARFARE:
FACT OR FICTION (editor: John White) (Nottinghamshire: Aquarian, 1988) 34-57.
      53. Lawrence, WERE WE CONTROLLED?, 38.
      54. Bowart, OPERATION MIND CONTROL, 261-264.
      55. Ibid. 263.
      56. Lawrence, WERE WE CONTROLLED?, 52.
      57. HUMAN DRUG TESTING BY THE CIA, 202.
      58. Note especially the Supreme Court's decision in CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY ET Al. V. SIMS, ET AL. (No. 83-1075; decided April 16, 1986).  The
egregious and dangerous majority opinion in this case held that disclosure of
the names of scientists and institutions involved in MKULTRA posed an
"unacceptable risk of revealing 'intelligence sources.'  The decisions of the
[CIA] Director, who must of course be familiar with 'the whole picture,' as
judges are not, are worthy of great deference...it is conceivable that the
mere explanation of why information must be withheld can convey valuable
information to a foreign intelligence agency."  How do we square this continu-
ing need for secrecy with the CIA's protestations that MKULTRA achieved little
success, that the studies were conducted within the Nueremberg statues govern-
ing medical experiments, and that the research was made available in the open
literature?
      59. Letter, P.A. Lindstrom to Robert Naeslund, July 27, 1983; copy
available from Martti Koski, Kiilinpellontie 2, 21290 Rusko, Finland.  Lind-
strom writes that he fully agrees with Lincoln Lawrence, author of WERE WE
CONTROLLED?
      60. Bowart, OPERATION MIND CONTROL, 265.  I have attempted without
success to contact Dr. Lindstrom.
      61. Bowart, OPERATION MIND CONTROL, 233-249.  This interview was
repinted without attribution in a bizarre compendium of UFO rumors called
THE MATRIX, compiled by "Valdamar Valerian" (actually John Grace, allegedly
a captain working for Air Force intelligence).
      62. Robert Anton Wilson, "Adventures with Head Hardware," MAGICAL BLEND,
23 [of course], July 1989.
      63. Michael Hutchison, MEGA BRAIN (New York: Ballantine, 1986); Gerald
Oster, "Auditory Beats in the Brain," SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, September, 1973.
      64. Marilyn Ferguson, THE BRAIN REVOLUTION (New York: Taplinger, 1973),
90.
      65. Ibid., 91-92.  The presence of delta in a waking subject can
indicate pathology.
      66. Bio-Pacer promotional and price sheet, available from Lindemann
Laboratories, 3463 State Street, #264, Santa Barbara, CA 93105.
      67. Hutchison, MEGA BRAIN, 117-118.  Compare Light's observations about
"the grant game" to Sid Gottlieb's protestations that nearly all "mind con-
trol" research was openly published.
      68. Thomas Martinez and John Gunther, THE BROTHERHOOD OF MURDER (New
York: McGraw-Hill, 1988), 230.
      69. Interview, Sandy Monroe of the Los Angeles office of the Christic
Institute.
      70. See generally Paul Brodeur, THE ZAPPING OF AMERICA (Toronto, George
J. MacLeod, 1977).
      71. Until recently, the American Embassy was on a street named after the
composer.
      72. It was finally determined that the microwaves were used to receive
transmissions from bugs planted within the embassy.  DARPA director George H.
Heimeier went on record stating that PANDORA was never designed to study
"microwaves as a surveillance tool."  See Anne Keeler, "Remote Mind Control
Technology," FULL DISCLOSURE #15.  I would note that the Soviet embassy was
"bugged and waved" in Canada during the 1950s, and according to the Los
Angeles TIMES (June 5, 1989), the Soviet embassy in Britain had been similarly
affected.
      73. Ronald I. Adams R.A. Williams, BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC
RADIATION (RADIOWAVES AND MICROWAVES) EURASIAN COMMUNIST COUNTRIES, (Defense
Intelligence Agency, March 1976.) Brodeur notes that much of the work ascribed
to the Soviets in this report was actually first accomplished by scientists in
the United States.  Keeler argues that this report constitutes an example of
"mirror imaging" -- i.e., parading domestic advances as a foreign threat, the
better to pry funding from a suitably-fearful Congress.
      74. Keeler, "Remote Mind Control Technology."
      75. R.J. MacGregor, "A Brief Survey of Literature Relating to Influence
of Low Intensity Microwaves on Nervous Function" (Santa Monica: RAND Corpor-
ation, 1970).
      76. Keeler, "Remote Mind Control Technology."
      77. Larry Collins, "Mind Control," PLAYBOY, January 1990.
      78. Allan H. Frey, "Behavioral Effects of Electromagnetic Energy,"
SYMPOSIUM ON BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS AND MEASUREMENTS OF RADIO FREQUENCIES/MICRO-
WAVES, DeWitt G. Hazzard, editor (U.S. Department of Health, Education and
Welfare, 1977).
      79. quoted in THE APPLICATION OF TESLA'S TECHNOLOGY IN TODAY'S WORLD
(Montreal: Lafferty, Hardwood & Partners, Ltd., 1978).
      80. Keeler, "Remote Mind Control Technology."
      81. L. George Lawrence, "Electronics and Brain Control," POPULAR
ELECTRONICS, July 1973.
      82. Susan Schiefelbein, "The Invisible Threat," SATURDAY REVIEW,
September 15, 1979.
      83. E. Preston, "Studies on the Nervous System, Cardiovascular Function
and Thermoregulation," BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF RADIO FREQUENCY AND MICROWAVE
RADIATION, edited by H.M. Assenheim (Ottawa, Canada: National Research Council
of Canada, 1979), 138-141.
      84. Robert O. Becker, THE BODY ELECTRIC (New York: William Morrow, 1985)
318-319.
      85. Ibid.
      86. Ibid., 321.
      87. See Bowart's OPERATION MIND CONTROL, page 218, for an interesting
example of this "rationalization" process at work in the case of Sirhan
Sirhan, who was convicted for the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy.  In
prison, Sirhan was hypnotized by Dr. Bernard Diamond, who instructed Sirhan
to climb the bars of his cage like a monkey.  He did so.  After the trance
was removed, Sirhan was shown tapes of his actions; he insisted that he "acted
like a monkey" of his own free will -- he claimed he wanted the exercise.
      88. Keeler suggests that the proposal was revealed only because
Schapitz' sensationalistic implications may have worked to his discredit --
and therefore hide -- the REAL research.  Personally, I don't accept this
argument, but I respect Keeler's instincts enough to repeat her caveat here.
      89. Margaret Cheney's TESLA: A MAN OUT OF TIME (New York: Dell, 1981),
the most reliable book in the sea of wild speculation surrounding this
extraordinary scientist, confirms Tesla's early work with the psychological
effects of electromagnetic radiation.  See especially pages 101-104; note also
the afterword, in which we learn that certain government agencies have kept
important research by Tesla hidden from the general public.
      90. Noted in Lawrence, WERE WE CONTROLLED?, 29.
      91. Particularly one Thomas Bearden of Huntsville, Alabama; I have in my
possession a document written by Bearden associate Andrew Michrowski which
identifies Bearden as an intelligence agent for an undisclosed agency.
      92. Kathleen McAuliffe, "The Mind Fields," OMNI magazine, February 1985.
      93. May 5, 1985.
      94. I refer to an individual who later wrote a very clear-headed and
thoughtful letter to Dr. Paul Lowinger, who has graciously made his files
available to me.  For now, I feel compelled to withold this person's name.
      95. Cameron became president of the American Psychiatric Association,
the Canadian Psychiatric Association, and the World Association of Psychia-
trists,  He previously sat on the Nueremberg panel, helping to draw up the
statutes governing ethical medical behavior!
      96. In particular, Opton and Scheflin's overview, though excellent in
scope and detail, continually seeks reassurring interpretations of evidence
which points toward more distressing conclusions.
      97. Martin T. Orne, "Can a hypnotized subject be compelled to carry out
otherwise unacceptable behavior?" INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CLINICAL AND EXPERI-
MENTAL HYPNOSIS, 1972, Vol. 20, 101-117.
      98. Marks mentions, in a letter to Orne, the latter's claim to have been
an unwitting participant in subproject 84.  Yet the papers released concerning
subproject 84 clearly establish the Agency's willingness to put Orne in the
know; Orne later admitted to Marks that he was made aware of his CIA sponsor-
ship (Marks, THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE", 172-173).  In an
interview with Marks, Orne discounted the story of Candy Jones (which we shall
recount later) by insisting that if such an experiment had occurred "someone
in some agency would have come to me."  Why would they come to him about a
super-secret project, unless Orne had a high security clearance and worked
extensively with intelligence agencies?  Note also that Orne conducted exten-
sive studies for the Office of Naval Research from June 1, 1968 to May 31,
1971.  He has also been funded by DARPA.  Moreover, I consider noteworthy the
fact that Orne somehow became president of the Society for Clinical and
Experimental Hypnosis despite the fact that the organization had decided not
to have a president.  (This fact was related to Marks by a prominent hypnosis
specialist in an off-the-record interview that I probably wasn't supposed to
see.)
      99. The story has been told many times.  See Turner and Christian's THE
KILLING OF ROBERT F. KENNEDY, 207-208; also Peter J. Reiter, ANTISOCIAL OR
CRIMINAL ACTS AND HYPNOSIS (Springfield, Illinois: Charles C. Thomas, 1958).
      100. John G. Watkins, "Antisocial behavior under hypnosis: Possible or
impossible?"  INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL FOR CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL HYPNOSIS,
1972, Vol. 20, 95-100.
      101. Milton H. Erickson, "An experimental investigation of the possible
anti-social use of hypnosis," PSYCHIATRY, 1939, vol. 2.  Erickson argues that
if a hypnotist has convinced his subject to misperceive reality, then result-
ing actions cannot be considered "anti-social," for the actions would be
acceptable within the subject's internal reality construct.  This argument
strikes me as semantic quibbling.  [not me -jpg]
      102. See generally Flo Conway and Jim Seigelman, SNAPPING (New York:
Lippincott, 1978).
      103. Lee and Schlain, ACID DREAMS, 8-9.
      104. John Marks interview with Victor Marchetti, December 19, 1977
(Marks files).
      105. Martin T. Orne, "On the Mechanisms of Posthypnotic Amnesia," THE
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL HYPNOSIS, 1966, vol. 14,
121-134.  Orne's work with post-hypnotic amnesia was funded by NIMH, the Air
Force Office of Scientific Research, and the Office of Naval Research.  I
should like to hear what innocent explanation, if any, the Air Force has to
offer to explain their interest in post-hypnotic amnesia.  ["We must not allow
a post-hypnotic-amnesia gap!" of course.  -jpg]
      106. Bowart, OPERATION MIND CONTROL, 242-243.
      107. Obviously Allan Dulles.  This may have been a hypnotically-induced
delusion; on the other hand, Dulles' legendary sexual rapacity makes this claim
rather less unlikely than one might first assume.  [WRONG!  Obviously, this
reference is to J.R. "Bob" Dobbs, chief MC of the Church of SubGenius; the
initials A.D. refer to one of his pseudonyms, Adman Destructor.  "Bob"'s
sexual rapacity is the stuff of SubLegend.  -jpg]
      108. Always the best indicator of whether or not hypnosis is genuine;
I can't understand why Orne didn't use this test in the Blanchi case.
      109. Herbert Spiegel, "Hypnosis and evidence: Help or hindrance," ANN.
N.Y. ACAD. SCI.; 1980, 347, 73-85.
      110. See, for example, Kroger, HYPNOSIS AND BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION, 21-22
      111. See especially Klass, UFO ABDUCTIONS: A DANGEROUS GAME, 60-61.
Orne, interviewed here, makes reference to the work summarized in his article
"The use and misuse of hypnosis in court" (INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CLINICAL
HYPNOSIS, 1979, vol. 27, 311-341.)
      112. Klass argues that ufologists, in conducting hypnotic regression
sessions, inadvertently cue their subjects.  A close reading of his text
reveals that he never proves or claims that such "cues" have taken place in
any individual instance; he simply believes that cueing MIGHT have occurred.
Had Klass been more willing to deal with abductees directly, he might have
found evidence of cause and effect; as it stands, his argument really amounts
to no more than a suggestion.  For all that, I find his ideas regarding the
running of "clean" hypnotic regression sessions potentially valuable.      113. Marks, THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE", 34-37.
      114. Donald Bain, THE CONTROL OF CANDY JONES (Chicago, Playboy Press,
1976).
      115. The use of hypnotized couriers in warfare goes back to the 19th
century.
      116. Estabrooks, HYPNOTISM, 193-214.
      117. John Marks interview with Milton Kline, December 22, 1977 (Marks
files).  In another interview, Professor Clare Young (a colleague of Esta-
brooks' at Colgate University) confirmed that Estabrooks' hypnosis work for
the government has never been published.
      118. Or could her marriage have been part of the program?  "Long John,"
as he was popularly known, was famous in UFO circles, and had provided a forum
for such early-day contactees as Howard Menger.  He also knew Jackie Gleason,
a prominent (if unlikely) name in the "crashed disc" rumor vaults.  Could
Candy have been assigned to discover what Nebel knew?
      119. Marks files. John Marks did excellent work on the Candy Jones story;
he erred -- almost unforgivably -- on the side of conservatism when he refused
to include information about this incident in his book.  I know the name of
the institute involved; however, since Candy saw fit to keep this aspect of
her story secret (probably for sound legal reasons), I shall follow her lead.
      120. Scheflin and Opton, THE MIND MANIPULATORS, 446-447.
      121. Interviews, Marks files.  One of Marks' informants offered the
interesting speculation that Candy's torture sessions were not conducted in
the field, but in the lab -- her entire mission might have been a hypno-
programmed fantasy.
      122. The information about Candy's CIA files stems from a telephone
interview with Candy Jones.  A problem looms here: CIA cover stories unravel
like the skin of an onion; once you remove the outer layer, the next lie is
revealed.  [For this reason, I don't think this paper "reveals" the whole
truth; that, I suspect, is far worse.  -jpg]  In the case of Candy Jones, the
substrata of buncombe involves allegations that she WILLINGLY complied with
the CIA, and used Jensen's hypnosis experiments as a rationalization for her
compliance.  Such is the explanation offered by certain of Marks' informants;
alas, Opton and Scheflin seem to have bought this line.  Anyone familiar with
the vile acts of self-degradation to which Candy's programmers subjected her
will laugh this story out of court.  No one, short of a severely psychotic
masochist, would willingly undergo what she went through.
      123. Marks files.
      124. William Kroger, CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL HYPNOSIS (Philadelphia:
Lippincott, 1963), 299.
      125. Recently, ufologist Jim Moseley, an acquaintance of Candy's, has
claimed that an unidentified source on Nebel's "inner circle" once, off-the-
record, pronounced Candy's story "a crock."  This assertion deserves careful
and respectful consideration.  Still, Moseley won't identify his source, and
we have no way of telling if this insider spoke from instinct or certain
knowledge, or indeed, what he really meant.  Did he feel Candy was fantasizing
or fibbing?  If the former, why did her hallucinations match details of
MKULTRA released only after publication of her book?  If the latter, how are
we to explain the many hypnotic regression tapes, at least some of which were
made available to outside investigators?  (Fairly elaborate, for a hoax.)  In
any case, how could Candy have known the fact (confirmed by Marks' associates)
that Kroger taught "Jensen" at a certain West-coast institute?  Why, if the
story was "a crock," would Candy risk libel suits by naming -- to associates
and investigators, if not to the general public -- real-life hypnotherapists?
All in all, I would suggest that Moseley's "insider" was speaking glibly, and
did not know the true facts.  [Or was speaking disinformationally.  -jpg]
      126. Philadelphia, Lippincott, 1976.
      127. Ibid., 415.
      128. Similar paranoid outbreaks led to the dissolution of Dr. Richard
Neal's UFO abductee group in Los Angeles, according to a phone interview I had
with Dr. Neal.
      129. Affidavit of Dr. Simpson-Kallas in the case of Sirhan-Sirhan, 1973;
see Bowart, OPERATION MIND CONTROL, 225.
      130. All true MPs have experienced some form of abuse or trauma, psycho-
logical or physical, during childhood.
      131. One was ritually abused in an occult setting.  If I were a "spy-
chiatrist" scouting potential fodder for mind control experiments, I would
seek out abused children from military families.  (A military background
would ensure that the "right" doctor gets access to the child.)  Abduction
researchers should look for such a pattern.
      132. I refer here to the vast upsurge in alien abductions which took
place that year; see generally Kevin Randle, THE OCTOBER SCENARIO (Middle
Coast, 1988).  Of course, abductions (or, according to my hypothesis, dis-
guised mind control operations) occurred previous to this year.
      133. John Marks interview with Milton Kline, December 22, 1977 (Marks
files).
      134. Brenda Butler ET AL., SKY CRASH, expanded edition (London: Grafton
Books, 1986), 305-321, 354-355.
      135. Telephone interview with Nancy Wright.
      136. Telephone interview with Miranda Parks.
      137. William Moore, "UFOs and the U.S. Government," FOCUS, vol. 4,
June 30, 1989.  Moore's role in the affair strikes me as highly questionable,
even scandalous -- although at least here we have one instance of direct and
irrefutable "insider" testimony of government harassment.
      138. Some have also raised questions about his psychiatric treatment
of Oswald assassin Jack Ruby.  I find it odd that a CIA mind control veteran
-- who did NOT reside or practice in Dallas -- should have been assigned to the
Ruby case.
      139. Samiel Chavkin, THE MIND STEALERS (New York: Houghton Mifflin,
1978), 96-107.
      140. Raymond Fowler, THE ANDREASSON AFFAIR (New York: Prentice Hall,
1979).
      141. New York: Warner Books, 1989; 198-202.
      142. Ruth Montgomery, ALIENS AMONG US (Ballantine, 1985), 49. My article
"Psychiatric Abuse of UFO Witness," referred to earlier, also documents this
phenomenon.
      143. Chung-Kwang Chou and Arthur W. Guy, "Quantization of Microwave
Biological Effects," SYMPOSIUM OF BIOLOGICAL EFFECTS AND MEASUREMENT OF RADIO
FREQUENCY/MICROWAVES, edited by Dewitt G. Hazzard (U.S. Department of Health,
Education and Welfare, 1977).
      144. MIAMI HERALD, May 28, 1984 and June 6, 1984; NATIONAL EXAMINER,
vol. 22, no. 18, April 30, 1985.  Although the EXAMINER is a supermarket
tabloid, and therefore a questionable source, this periodical has rendered
researchers the service of printing the X-ray of Petit's brain, showing the
implant.  [Ever heard of airbrushing?  -jpg]
      145. Los Angeles TIMES, March 28, 1988.
      146. Raymond Fowler, THE ANDREASSON AFFAIR, PHASE TWO (Reward, 1982).
This book includes rare photographs of the unmarked helicopters which have
plagued this abduction victim and her family.
      147. A mutual friend described for me an incident in which the former
SEAL, mistakenly perceiving a threat, almost instantly felled, and nearly
killed, a man twice his size.  Whatever the truth of my informant's other
statements, he certainly has received advanced combat training.
      148. Fenton Bresler, WHO KILLED JOHN LENNON? (New York: St. Martin's
Press, 1989), 45-46.
      149. Bowart, OPERATION MIND CONTROL, 27-42.
      150. Denise Winn, THE MANIPULATED MIND (London, Octagon Press, 1983),
72-73; Bresler, WHO KILLED JOHN LENNON?, 41; see generally: Peter Watson,
WAR ON THE MIND (London: Hutchison, 1978) (Watson broke the story on Narut
for the London TIMES).
      151. Larry Collins, "Mind Control," PLAYBOY, January 1990.
      152. John Marks interview with Milton Kline, December 22, 1977 (Marks
files).
      153. Richard A. Gabriel, NO MORE HEROES (New York: Hill and Wang, 1987),
124.
      154. Ibid., 150-151.
      155. See generally: Mark Lane, CONVERSATIONS WITH AMERICANS (Simon and
Shuster, 1970); A.J. Langguth, HIDDEN TERRORS (New York: Pantheon, 1978).
      156. John G. Fuller, THE INTERRUPTED JOURNEY (New York: Dell, 1966).
      157. This detail plays a part in other abductions -- for example, it
crops up in the Betty Andreasson Luca case.  See Raymond Fowler, THE ANDREAS-
SON AFFAIR (New York: Bantam, 1980), 50-51.
      158. Stanton Friedman, for example; the reader is referred to his 1988
Whole Life Expo lecture, "UFOs: A Cosmic Watergate."
      159. THE BODY ELECTRIC, 196-202.
      160. The Fish map has received wide discussion; for a representative
sampling, the reader is directed to the aforementioned Friedman lecture (note
158); Terence Dickenson, "The Zeti Reticuli Incident," ASTRONOMY, December,
1974; Klass, UFO ABDUCTIONS: A DANGEROUS GAME, 20-23; and John Rimmer, THE
EVIDENCE FOR ALIEN ABDUCTIONS (Weillingborough: Aquarian, 1984), 88-92.
Incidentally, Klass has proposed to Friedman a test regarding the ability to
recall such material accurately under hypnotic regression; Friedman, for
reasons best known to himself, declined the offer to participate.

OPERATION MIND CONTROL, by Walter Bowart (Dell, 1978).  The best single volume
      on the subject.  Difficult to find; indeed, this book's rapid disappear-
      ance from bookstores and libraries has aroused the suspicions of some
      researchers.  (Tom David Books, POB 1107, Aptos, CA 95001, carries this
      work.)

PHYSICAL CONTROL OF THE MIND, by Jose Delgado (Harper and Row, 1969). Outdated
      but still essential.

PROJECT MKULTRA, joint hearing before the Select Committee on Health and
      Scientific Research of the Committee on Human Resources, United States
      Senate (Government Printing Office, 1977).

PSYCHIC WARFARE: FACT OR FICTION? edited by John White (Aquarian, 1988).  See
      especially Michael Rossman's contribution.

PSYCHOTECHNOLOGY, Robert L. Schwitzgebel and Ralph K. Schwitzgebel (Holt,
      Rhinehart and Winston, 1973).

THE SCIENTIST, by John Lilly (expanded edition: Ronin, 1988).  Bizarre --
      Lilly is an ex-"brainwashing" specialist who claims to be in contact
      with aliens.  Is he controlled or controlling?

THE SEARCH FOR "THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE", by John Marks (Bantam, 1978).  An
      invaluable book.  However, many people have made the mistake of assuming
      it tells the full story.  It does not.

WERE WE CONTROLLED? by Lincoln Lawrence (University Books, 1967).  Explores
      possible connections to the JFK assassination.  Dr. Petter Lindstrom's
      endorsement of this work makes it mandatory reading.

WHO KILLED JOHN LENNON? by Fenton Bresler (St. Martin's Press, 1989).
      Interesting thesis concerning the possible use of mind control on Mark
      David Chapman.  Better in its analysis of Chapman than in its history
      of mind control.  In my own work, I have encountered data which may
      help confirm Bresler's theory.

THE ZAPPING OF AMERICA, by Paul Brodeur (MacLeod [Canadian edition], 1976).
      Contains a good chapter on microwave mind control technology.

The important stories of Martti Koski and Robert Naeslund can be obtained by
sending three dollars to Martti Koski, Kiilinpellontie 2, 21290 Rusko,
FINLAND.  Koski's description of his "programming" sessions should not be
taken at face value; we cannot always trust the perception of someone whose
perception has been altered.  His research into the technology of mind control
is solid.

But none of that could ever happen in THIS country, oh never.  We're protected
by the Philip Morris Constitution(tm) and the National Security Act of 1947.

                        AND I FEEL SECURE.  DON'T YOU?

Television certainly couldn't be INTENTIONALLY CONTRIVED to induce hypnagogic f
trance states in its viewers through which the Con delivers ONENESS FANTASY
INDUCTION, Oral Gratification Stimulation and **DEATH ANXIETY** SIGNALS.
<girlfriend and I are one>   WHY DO YOU THINK IT'S CALLED "PROGRAMMING"!?!?   n
We have American brand McFreedom:  we're free to consume ourselves into
indentured-servitude/wage-slave debt, free to get the BEST MIND CONTROL
ADVERTISING that CREDIT CAN BUY.  Never mind McGovernment prying into our     o
bladders for evidence of Thoughtcrime...those evil drug users aren't consuming
the RIGHT, government-SUBSIDIZED drugs and therefore are traitors to the
Fatherland! <feed me> The Drug Czar really WASN'T ADDICTED TO NICOTINE; he    r
chewed Nicorettes TO SET A SHINING EXAMPLE FOR THE CHILDREN and make them GOOD
CONSUMERS OF PHILIP MORRIS tobacco products.  <buy or die>  Hail Helms!  Viva
Zapata Oil!  NSA KNOWS BEST!                                                  d

                           MEIN FUEHRER!  I CAN WALK!


"If you want a picture of the future,       "One of the more interesting
imagine a boot stamping on a human          concepts of propaganda -- at least
face -- forever."                           propaganda in Western societies --
                           - O'Brien        is that it's a propaganda of
                                            integration, that it's not an overt
"Simply knowing you're an object of         practice, that it is something that
propaganda is not enough, in itself,        has to take place over a long
to armor one against the appeals of         period of time; it has to be fairly
propaganda.  That's really the              common; it has to be integrated
message of 1984...everybody's aware         into everyday life."
that the propaganda is ongoing --                             - Richard Bolton,
that's what doublethink is, that's                        Prof. of Visual Arts,
what the concept of doublethink                                            MIT
means: with one part of your mind
you can see that it's just a crock,         No. 2:  Why did you resign?
and you don't fall for it, but with         No. 6:  Too many people know too
the other part of that same mind,                   much.
you adhere blindly to it."                  No. 2:  Never!
                      - Mark Miller,
           Johns Hopkins University


   "Outside man there is nothing."
   "But the whole universe is outside us.  Look at the stars!  Some of them are
a million light-years away.  They are out of our reach forever."
   "What are stars?" said O'Brien indifferently.  "They are bits of fire a few
kilometers away.  We could reach them if we wanted to.  Or we could blot them
out.  The earth is the center of the universe.  The sun and the stars go round
it...For certain purposes, of course, that is not true.  When we navigate the
ocean, or when we predict an eclipse, we often find it convenient to assume
that the earth goes round the sun and that the stars are millions upon millions
of kilometers away.  But what of it?  Do you suppose it is beyond us to produce
a dual system of astronomy?  The stars can be near or distant, according as we
need them.  Do you suppose our mathematicians are unequal to that?  Have you
forgotten doublethink?"

                                            Bad thinking is punishable.
      No. 2:  (shouts) Why POP!             Good thinking will be as
      No. 6:  Pop, pop, pop.                quickly rewarded.  You will
                                            find it an effective
                                            combination.
                                                           - The Keeper

As time is short, and you may lie, I'm    The fact that the Conspiracy is
going to have to torture you.  But I      unaware of itself as a Conspiracy
want you to know it isn't personal.       gives it such power over our minds
                        - Agent Rogerz    that the very thought becomes
                          REPO MAN        unthinkable.
                                                                   - Arise!
                                           SubGprop indoctrination tape #23

                    You don't have many suspects who are
                    innocent of a crime.  That's contradictory.
                    If a person is innocent of a crime, then
                    he is not a suspect.
                                             - Edwin Meese III
                                      ex-U.S. Attorney General