Dear Folk: Here is some information that was sent to me about NASA

Interresting little NASA article, thought you'all might be interrested in.
J--- F- M--------

I'm posting this for a friend who doesn't have internet access.

Now it appears that someone sent the commands to the Clementine spacecraft
to exhaust all of the fuel on board so it is essentially DIW (Dead in the
Water).  NASA and DOD claim there was a computer glitch, however under
normal circumstances, this could only be commanded from the ground.  This
apparently is a desperately cheap shot at sabotaging a perfectly working
spacecraft so that is cannot perform the rest of the mission Congressmen
have insisted on it performing.  Apparently, Clementine has found evidence
of moon bases and artificial structures on the moon.  Has anyone called
for an investigation of this act of space sabotage? 


The following article is by E----- D------- an organizer with the
Operation Right To Know (ORTK).  ORTK is the group that is sponsoring a
demonstration 23 May 1994 at noon at the Pentagon (South Parking) to
protest UFO secrecy.  She would be happy to dialog with anyone about the
article or the demonstration. 

Article begins:


How long can NASA keep the Big Secret?

by E------ D-------, Operation Right to Know (202-232-2410)

There are indications the space agency NASA is so pregnant with the
UFO secret it can hardly contain the secret much longer. It seems
people who work  at NASA are feeling used and uneasy about having
to keep the UFO secret, and  that in fact some of these people have
decided to let the secret out.  For example, a former NASA director
says point blank in the April issue  of Int'l UFO Library Magazine
that the Mars Observer probe is not dead but is  in fact sending
pictures back to NASA. Furthermore, says the author Maurice 
Chatelain, some of these pictures will be published soon "despite
the official  cover-up."

This may tie in with a current rumor that a month ago two people
from  NASA took information on the cover-up to the BBC in England.
The expectation  was the BBC would air the information by now, but
they haven't. Is this what  Chatelain was referring to?

In the meantime, the west coast edition of NBC TV news broadcast
this  remarkable story May 3: the NASA-DOD Clementine mission now
leaving the moon  has been diverted to Mars instead of going to an
asteroid, as previously  planned. This information was not
broadcast on the east coast. Mars  researchers who phoned a video
clipping service for copies were first told  copies were available
and then told they weren't. Next day the New York Times  reported
that due to "budget cuts," DOD is trying to kill the Clementine 
mission entirely. 

For some time now we've been hearing about cliques in the
bureaucracy-- groups of people in DOD, NASA, and intelligence who
meet unofficially to talk  about UFOs. My hunch is some of these
cliques have decided to take matters  into their own hands, and the
astronauts are involved. For example, Gordon  Cooper is now
reported to have given an interview in which he discusses the 
back-engineering of ET craft. 

Richard Hoagland, the dogged pursuer of NASA, is responsible for
some of  this pressure. Another factor is it looks like NASA is in a
struggle with another agency. For example, there were two attempts
to sabotage the Mars Observer  camera before the Observer left.
Astounding! Hoagland brought this story out.  Trash was twice
dumped inside the camera's lens.* 

Seems like somebody was screaming a big "No!" to NASA about going
to  Mars at all, and indeed they might--because it is the fallout
from the  "failed" Mars Observer mission that has accelerated
NASA's loss of control  over the Big Secret.

If NASA hadn't gone back to Mars last year, the agency could have
kept a  lid on the controversy over the anomalous landforms on Mars
(the Cydonia  "face" and associated structures). But once in the
air, NASA came under  intense pressure to re-photograph the face.
Speculation is the unexpectedly  strong pressure is why NASA
decided to claim the mission was lost. And just  before the loss
was announced, a new element for NASA to cope with had arisen --
the formidable Stanley McDaniel. 

Some people think the McDaniel Report on NASA and the Cydonia
landforms  drove NASA to take its desperate step. A report may not
sound like much, but  that's only until your read the McDaniel
Report. It is a devastating critique  of NASA and also exposes Carl
Sagan as a disinformation agent. Why haven't Mr.  Lichtenstein, Mr.
Rockefeller, Mr. Bigelow, Mr. Andrus, or Mr. Hall funded  this high
quality academic report for distribution to Congress?

If NASA has lied about the loss of the Mars Observer, it is the
most  audacious act of political deception this century. Whether
decisive or not,  McDaniel added to the heat on NASA. One NASA
spokesman went on TV showing  signs of stress, and 10 minutes later
NASA announced the Mars Observer was  lost. Right away the leaks
began. Hoagland, McDaniel, Bob Oechsler, and others  received calls
saying the announcement was a cover story. Now former NASA 
Director of Communications Maurice Chatelain has put it into print.

Some people who work at NASA are acting strangely. For example,
they  meet with relative strangers in crowded public places and
speak in loud voices  about the top secret deception. NASA
scientists are accompanying some ET  researchers on UFO-watching
expeditions and seeing UFOs with them.  When the interview with
Gordon Cooper comes out in which Cooper talks  about
back-engineering alien craft, the cover-up will surely be near its
end.  And the astronauts have been sidling up to this for a while. 

Three years ago Cooper's 1978 letter to the UN calling UFOs 
"extraterrestrial vehicles" was published; and in 1991 Edgar
Mitchell talked  about government extraterrestrial secrets on Oprah
Winfrey. Now comes Maurice  Chatelain. His article details 9
separate occasions when UFOs observed,  stalked, or assaulted US
spacecraft, including the exact date, names of the  astronauts on
the mission and what occurred.

We have recently learned that the Ringling Bros extravaganza
"Cosmic  Journey" has been revived. Astronauts were involved in
original concept, in  the story brought out by Bob Oechsler and Tim
Good. The concept was a public  exhibition of US space
technology--and UFOs/ET. The project was cancelled. But  about a
month ago, a Cosmic Journey staff member bought $150 worth of UFO 
books at a Washington DC bookstore. One researcher made inquiries
and reached  a Ringling Bros contractor, Ed Buckbee of Huntsville,
Alabama. Buckbee said  that Cosmic Journey "will not get into the
UFO issue until later."

And according to Reuters Dec. 1, 1993, one of the current
astronauts  says he is "trying to communicate with the life out
there." Astronaut Storey  Musgrave, member of the Hubble repair
mission, told a reporter: "When I'm  circling I try in whatever
ways I can to get them to come down and get me."  Mr. Musgrave
sounds like an "experiencer," doesn't he?

Richard Hoagland says some Congresspeople were about to get
together  recently for a conference on Mars, but NASA exerted
"tremendous pressure" to  get the conference cancelled. Stan
McDaniel, who was also involved, says, "We  were told government
people would be there, and then they disappeared."  McDaniel could
not confirm Hoagland's claim that threats were made against 
members of Congress.

Hoagland says that people who are talking to him have been offered
jobs  to shut them up. "Come and work with us on the 'dark side',"
Hoagland says  they were told.

Instead of Mars, Hoagland now is focussed on the moon. There are 
artificial structures on the moon, he claims, and so does Maurice
Chatelain.  In his article, Chatelain casually drops the bombshell
that the Apollo mission  found "several mysterious geometric
structures of unnatural origin" on the  moon. And in fact some sort
of startling new picture book has just been  published:
Extraterrestrial Archaeology, by David Childress.**  Chatelain says
he's going to reveal what happened to the astronauts on the moon in
a  forthcoming article.

According to UFO researcher Bill Hamilton, x-space programer Brian 
O'Leary says the Air Force has "its own secret space program and
its own  military astronauts." Hamilton's 1991 book, Cosmic Top
Secret, reports on an  amazing newspaper article: August 7, 1989
the LA Herald-Examiner ran a story  which stated DOD was
dismantling a secret $5 billion coast-to-coast space  complex and
would now begin collaborating with NASA's civilian space shuttle. 
The article stated that a secret cadre of 32 military astronauts
based in LA  was disbanded in 1988. If this story is true, it
sounds like DOD moved a major  clandestine operation into NASA in
1988-89, and that may be the key to what is  happening now at NASA.

Whoever in NASA put the two Viking pictures of the face on Mars
into the  open record 17 years ago is an unsung patriot. From what
I've heard, however,  not all the interesting pictures were put
out. Hear's what Mars researchers  Vince DiPietro and John
Brandenburg told me happened a few years ago. A  graduate student
at the Univ. of Louisiana phoned DiPietro excitedly several  times
and described a numbered NASA Viking photo of Mars on display in
the  department. The Martian surface photo showed a group of 6
faces. Each looked  just like the Cydonia face. When DiPietro tried
to get the photo, a professor told him it was "lost."

Another thing that's happening is that UFO researchers are
beginning to  realize that the network of surveillance satellites
the U.S. had in orbit is  fully capable of tracking UFOs and
therefore, researchers are realizing, NASA  must be tracking UFOs.
This introduces a new dimension into the cover-up. It means much of
the data coming into NASA has ET information, and this  has to be
scrubbed out. Data from the space probes and the Shuttle missions, 
as well as the vast intelligence product that pours in from the
surveillance  satellites--including the orbiting telescopes, the
commercial and  environmental satellites--has ET evidence that NASA
has to get rid of before  the data can be released to anyone. 

There has to be a gate keeper first in line for all incoming data
who  captures and reroutes ET evidence into black channels. And
this is just what  we saw in the form of Michael Malin, whom NASA
put in charge of all Mars  Observer photos and said he could keep
them for 6 months before release. An example of scrubbing is
related by Maryland resident Don Ratsch from  Houston researcher
Don Madeley. They say a female NASA employee was shown how  NASA
technicians air brush images of UFOs which show up on NASA's
pictures of  earth.

Don Ratsch was the one who recorded the apparent voice of a shuttle
astronaut from space saying, "We have the alien spacecraft under
observation"- -but the authenticity could not be proved. Ratsch
went on to record the STS-48  tape from NASA TV Sept. 1991. The
tape shows inexplicable moving lights in the  upper atmosphere, one
of which appears to be shooting at the other. Adding to  that,
Linda Howe says a military officer told her he's hearing reports of
"some kind of war in space." Could it be? Naw.

Still, the leaks are everywhere. Even Rush Limbaugh. He told his
radio  audience in late 1992 that a trusted friend in NASA said the
Hubble telescope  was never broken, but was being used to study ET
in some way. In the meantime,  I personally learned of a fellow at
McDonnell-Douglas who also said the Hubble  was operating in the
black. 

This fellow reported he was doing interface programs that enabled 
innocuous-sounding instructions from the ground to translate into
different,  secret directives to the telescope. He said the output
was not broadcast to  the ground, but was downloaded by hand on
Shuttle missions.

So who's squeezing NASA the hardest? The CIA? Hoagland and
McDaniel? The  aliens? A friend of mine called NASA recently and
cajoled a press officer into  a confidential conversation.
According to my friend, the press officer said,  "NASA is very
fragmented and many people in NASA want the truth." And then 
added, "NASA is no longer running itself. A major intelligence
group is now  running NASA."

So there you have it ladies and gentlemen. Your tax dollars at
work! 
        Let's hazard a theory. In 1988 DOD moved clandestine space
operations  into NASA, and since then DOD or some "major
intelligence group" has been  trying to run NASA. As a result, NASA
is now in a power struggle with this  other group. The two groups
violently disagreed on how to run the Mars  Observer and the
Clementine missions, and evidence of this conflict broke into  the
open.

In the ranks at NASA, there are several sources of discontent.
People  who want to run a civilian space program, not an
intelligence operation.  People who are angry at being shut out of
the Big Secret but who still have to  tell lies to the public. And
people who are worried they could be indicted and  go to jail for
their roles in maintaining the Big Secret.

Even though the ruling groups disagree, they are still determined
to  maintain their hold on the Big Secret. But the ranks at NASA
are breaking and  the ruling groups are losing control over the
ranks. It's about time! 

______________________

* Quarterly Journal of the Mars Mission, Winter 1994, 122 Dodd St,
Weehawken,  NJ 07087.

** Extraterrestrial Archaeology by David Childress, $21.00,
Adventures  Unlimited Press, Publishers Network, Box 74, 303 Main
St, Kempton, Ill. 60946.

------- End of Forwarded Message

JW Well now what do you think of that, sports fans.

John Winston.
