
          "In the near future an event that no human mind
          should be uninformed about will take place. There
          will be no need to ask 'why' or 'how', because all
          questions will be answered."


     Space beings have always lived on earth. They have been
among us since the dawn of civilization. Occasional appearances
in the skies prove that we are constantly visited by beings from
other worlds.  Throughout the ages, certain races have chosen to
take on human form in order to monitor the development of mankind.
As humans they live normal lives, until they reach adulthood.
That's when their 'true being' is eventually revealed, which
they have kept to themselves for obvious reasons.

     It was one of these beings who disclosed the following
information to me.  The pieces of the puzzle now slipped into
place.  Whether these beings visit us from the skies, or have
been living on earth; their intentions and the message they
bring has been basically the same:

     Mankind is entering it's last days.  They will be prepared
to assist when the time comes.

     The meaning behind our visitors secret activities now
becomes clear.

     What is a "contactee"?  Why have people been abducted at
an unprecedented rate?  These beings are and have been gradually
selecting people for a 'definite' purpose sometime in the near
future.  All contactees are systematically chosen because of
certain qualities they possess.  A small portion of all contactees
have had minor close encounter experiences, but the majority are
subjects of 'implantation'.  These people have a 'microscopic
implant' surgically inserted into their brain.  This 3 millimeter
sphere contains a storehouse of knowledge.  The main purpose will
be to use this information to teach and to raise mankind's
awareness.  Also, to inform and to gain the people's acceptance.
It is like comparing it to a locked drawer.  Once the drawer is
unlocked, the knowledge will become like second nature.  All
contactees will have a sudden interest in an area that they never
had previously.

     During the screening process, these beings sought out
individuals of 'strong character', and who would have the potential
to develop into a 'firm believer'.  There are about 3 million people
across the world who have been implanted.  Only a small percentage
actually remember being physically examined; most are 'unaware' of
their experience.  All will definitely become aware when the
'formation' is to occur.  The formation is the global event that
will release the information contained in the implants.  It is the
key that will unlock the drawer.

     All of the chosen around the world will be simultaneously
gathered and transported to certain areas.  Each has a designated
person or 'guardian' who has been watching over them.  Some may
have the task of monitoring several contactees.  It will be this 
'acquaintance' who will notify the contactee in advance of what
is to take place.  Others who have had close encounter experiences
will be given the choice whether or not they wish to gain the
knowledge; it was for this reason that they were not implanted.
It is also expected that many will choose not to take part in 
the formation at the last moment, mainly because of personal
commitments.

     What the contactee decides to do with the knowledge
afterwards is up to him or her. There are many routes one can
take; such as giving lectures, teaching the poor, or generally
spreading the word.  It's all up to the contactee.  All are part
of a worldwide program of psychological conditioning, in order to
gradually spread the message and to slowly prepare the people.

     The formation is an actual event that will take place very
soon.  My intentions are to inform; that's why I ask that you
accept this with an open heart and with an open mind.  It's
not important that you believe this now, but to file it away
for future reference.  In a year, perhaps two, when the truth
finally becomes known, you will look back on this and realize
that it was indeed 'actual fact'.

          
          "The Angel said 'Do no harm the Earth', the sea
           or the trees until we mark the servants of our
           God with a seal on their foreheads'.  And I was
           told the number with God's seal on their foreheads:
           It was 144,000.  They are the predestined."

                                   Revelation  7:3-5.
                                   ------------------






            Send Feedback to:   Ben Obina
                                2 Steeles Ave, W.
                                P.O. Box 125
                                Thornhill, Ontario,
                                CANADA    L4J-1A1


