* The Trumpet Blows A Sour Note.


In reply to Ben Obina's "THE LAST TRUMPET," The Story Of One Young
Man's Desperate Struggle To Believe The Impossible, And Succeeds.

   It  has  been  observed  that  one may go to any Fundamentalist
Christian Revival meeting where "exorcisms" are  being  performed,
and someone will vomit a demon into a paper bag if you ask them to
(and often  when  you  ask  them not to).  There's great power (in
covertly manipulating others) from believing that the devil is out
to get one, personally.  Think of all the lively conversations one
could have with others, with one the center of attention,  as  one
relates  how  the  devil  caused  one  to  do horrible things like
(horrors!) masturbate, steal, or work on Sundays. ["Confrontations
With The DEVIL," by Robert W.  Pelton,  Pocket  Books,  1979,  pp.
126-127]

   It has also been observed that one may go to any UFO convention
and  someone  will  relate, under hypnosis, how they were abducted
and implanted and screwed and poked and peeked and sampled.    Try
to get them  to  shut  up.   Just try, and see if they will.  Good
luck. ["Flim-Flam," by James Randi, Prometheus  Books,  1987,  pp.
71-92]

   It  is  important  to remember that one's religion must be held
inviolate.  One must be allowed to believe and practice  religious
forms of expression freely and without intervention, provided that
such practices  do not harm others.  What's a little vomit between
True Believers, after all?  As long as they use a bag, and I don't
have to clean up after them, fine!

   It is  also  important  to  realize  that,  real  or  not,  the
Abduction   Phenomena  is  valid,  and  real  to  those  who  have
experienced them.  As such  experiences  cause  the  individual  a
great  deal  of  mental anguish in many cases, and a great deal of
income in others, one should not  scoff  at  the  individuals  who
relate abduction  stories.    To scoff is paramount to laughing at
the pain of hunger or loneliness.   What's  a  few  tears  between
abducted support  group  members,  after  all?    As long as every
member benefits and is not harmed, fine!

   But what about the True Believer and the Abducted who has  made
it  one's  calling to inform us how little we know about life, and
that they are there to help us?  Both have said that  the  "common
man"  (i.e.  you and I) are  not enlightened enough to understand.
Consider the following:

            ". . already I have been referred  to  as  a
         'crackpot' and also have been ridiculed.  But I
         assure    you[,]   people   will   'definitely'
			understand in  time,  their  minds  aren't  yet
         trained to handle this sort of information."

   This tells us flat out that we are not capable of understanding
the  abduction  phenomena,  as  our  minds  are  not developed for
(presumably) rational thought or observation.  This is a ploy that
religionist hysterics have used for 5,000 years, telling  us  that
only  through their intervention will we be able to understand the
improbable, impossible, and mysterious.  Sadly, millions buy  into
this.  I do not.

            "U.F.O's  are  definitely real, and are here
         for a purpose."

   Says who?  We were told before hand that we  are  not  able  to
understand,  so therefore we must not question what was to follow!
It  was  just  left  for  us  to   believe,   without   proof   or
qualifications.

            "The   occupants   are  the  'guardians'  of
         humanity.  The occasional appearances of  these
         'cosmic  missionaries'  is living proof that we
         are not alone in the universe.  Throughout time
         and history they have kept a 'watchful' eye and
         have been always interested in the  affairs  of
         man.   Sadly  though,  their existence has been
         concealed, ignored and ridiculed.  It  is  only
         just  recently  that  they have been alarmed by
         the dangerous turn of events on earth."

 I can no more argue against humanity requiring "guardians" that I
can argue that falling trees are soundless if unobserved.  We  are
told that "living proof" is offered us, but alas, I guess I'm just
not  mentally developed enough, as I think the above quote is pure
hog-slop.   Where  were  these  "guardians"  when   we   butchered
fifty-million humans, almost one million a year, during the second
world war?    Was  this  horror below the "guardians" intervention
level?  Or is it my  poorly  developed  brain  that  assumes  that
fifty-million murders is small potatoes, cosmically speaking?

   Several  reasons  are given us as to why these "guardians" have
come now, and not in the past.

				"we  are  not   taking   care  of  ourselves
			enviromentally and spiritually."

   I submit that if we take care of our environment, a great  many
of our  problems  will  be  eased.  Why  throw "spirituality" into
the pot?    If  one  does,  the  question  then  becomes:   "WHO'S
spirituality did  you  have in mind for us to emulate?"  This ties
in with the "you aren't capable of understanding so I'll think for
you" crap.

            "they  are  dissatisfied  with  contemporary
			social and economic injustices."

   Who has NOT been, masses speaking, over the past 5,000 years?

            "religion  has  been twisted and turned into
         fanaticism."

	Such as equating UFOs to "guardians," perhaps?

            As the guardians of mankind, they  can  only
         'condemn'  our actions, but they realize that a
         wasted evolution and an  inescapable  cataclysm
         will  be the final consequence of our 'inhuman'
         behavior.

	A hearty "disagree" here.  Why is it assumed that  the  human
race is  destined  to destruction?  Or is this something us lesser
mentality folks can't understand?  Civilizations have always  come
and gone, and so will the present ones.  With better understanding
of  our international neighbors, the extinction of the species can
be prevented.  It will hardly be easy,  but  it  is  by  no  means
definite that we will destroy ourselves.

   And now the waste material really hits the ventilation duct.

			  "What does  this  all mean?  As prophesied in
         the  Bible,  "On  judgement  day,  Christ  will
         descend  from the heavens in a cloud with great
         power and glory, and will reveal himself to all
         the tribes of the earth."  Luke  21:28.    Also
         foreseen is the fateful course we are presently
         taking,  "The  heavens  shall  pass away with a
         great noise, the elements  shall  melt  with  a
         fervent heat, and the earth, and also the works
         therein shall  be  burned  up."  Peter 3:10-14.
         In the Old Testament there are 30 references to
         Christ's first coming.  In  the  New  Testament
         there  are  50  specific references to Christ's
         'second' coming.  I also stress that the  earth
			is  not    following  a  path  towards complete
         annihilation, as in 'blowing itself to pieces'.
         Our planet 'will'  stay  intact,  and  it  will
         enter  a 'new age', a 'transition' for all that
         is left.

     The people who gave us the Christ myths are STILL waiting for
the "first coming," but Mr.  Obina would have us  believe  it  has
come and  gone already.  Kabalists generally agree that the Christ
will come some time around 2200-2300 ce, coincidently at the  same
time the  "Aquarian  Age" roughly starts.  Why throw Messiah myths
into the UFO picture?  What is served by using allegory to support
one's reality-structure?

            "Our planet's destiny can only be decided by
         mankind's actions."

   This is self-evident.  It also makes one wonder, though,  since
this is the case, where do the "guardians" come into the picture?!
If our destiny is for us to decide, who needs "guardians?"

            "I   have   read   many   versions   of  the
         catastrophic events  leading  up  to  judgement
         day,  and  also  what will actually 'happen' on
         judgement day.  Everything from a nuclear  war,
         to  an  axis-shift,  to a mass suicide by those
         who cannot accept the facts.  Do we really know
         the truth?.. only 'they' know."

   This supposes that "judgment day" is a fact, and  not  allegory
as it  was originally meant to be.  It also supposes that what has
been written about future events will happen, which has  never  in
history been  demonstrated.  The massive volumes written about the
end of the world are usually considered to be  active  meditations
(like  various  Midrashim  as  Alpha  Beta Ben Sira), and were not
meant to be taken as attempts at fortune-telling.

            "In the near future, an important event that
         no human mind should be uninformed  about  will
         take place.    It  will  come unexpectedly at a
         time of great need.  There will be no  need  to
         ask  'why'  or 'how' because all questions will
         be answered and all  doubts  will  be  laid  to
         rest.   Look  forward to this event, and do not
         fear it, because soon  'all'  will  awaken  and
         realize that 'fiction' will become 'fact'."

   Unfortunately,  there  are also those human minds that are very
disinformed.  Ben Obina tells us that no  human  minds  should  be
uninformed about what WILL take place.  Has there ever been a time
where  a human mind  has been so informed about future events that
can still go in any of many directions?!

   Fiction has often become fact, but hardly all!

            Those who do not understand do not  want  to
         know.   The  truth  is disturbing and will make
         one feel skeptical, but if understood  with  an
         open mind. it can and 'must' be accepted.  When
         the  time  comes, my purpose is to 'assist' and
         to let the people know and understand.    I  am
         just one of the many thousands around the world
         who  have  been  randomly  selected  to  slowly
         prepare the people and to gradually spread  the
         message.   We  are  all  part  of  a  worldwide
			program of 'psychological conditioning' before,
         and when this moment arrives.

   I do not understand, and I very much want to know.   What  does
this do to  Mr.    Obina's  theory?    Or is this more "you're too
stupid to understand" crap?

            "Space beings are the guardians of humanity.
         They  are  the  messengers  of   the   Ultimate
         Creator."

   Human beings  are  the  guardians  of  humanity.    We  are the
messengers of the Ultimate Creator, being one of Her creations.

            "Traces of the beings 'basic message' can be
         found  in  the  Bible  passages   relating   to
         judgement   day,  despite  the  fact  they  are
         written in vague and symbolic  terms.    Notice
         how the  people are to be "judged".  Notice how
         the believers of God's word are to  be  "raised
         from the  dead".  Notice what is meant when the
         Bible mentions the "home of the saved".  Is  it
         purely  coincidental  that most contactees have
         similar thoughts of 'permanent relocation'  and
         a different earth within the next 10 years?  In
         reference  to  judgement  day,  the Bible often
         "implies" the word "rapture".  The actual  word
         is  not  found  in  the Bible because sometimes
         Christians  have  a  tendency   to   toss   out
         misunderstood  words  which  have no meaning to
         the Non-Christian.  I suggest that you look  up
         the   word  in  the  dictionary,  you  will  be
         astonished at it's meaning and how it  ties  in
         with the beings 'basic message'."

   I  am  often  astonished  how one will use a hammer to drive in
screws-- a job that the hammer was not made to do.   Why  use  the
Bible to drive mythological screws into the real world?

            "If  you  are  shaking  your  head over this
         right   now,   please   remember    how    many
         'impossibles'  you  have said in your lifetime.
         Or how many 'impossibles'  men  throughout  the
         ages  have said to many things God has revealed
         through His  spokesman.    And  yet  they  were
         possible,  because  nothing is 'impossible' for
         God."

   God has yet to reveal anything through "spokesmen."  All that's
required to know Her is to look around.  When  someone  opens  his
mouth  and  spews out "God told me to tell you. . . ." is when the
impossible is forced into the mold of the irrationality.

            "I could tell you  how  their  ships  travel
         through  space;  how  they tie in with religion
         and  the  Bible;  how  they  tie  in  with  the
         destruction of previous civilizations that once
         flourished  on  earth;  how  they  tie  in with
         ancient mythology etc., etc. .. but I won't.  I
         already revealed to you what one 'only' need to
         know.. how  they  will  influence  the  future.
         Those  questions  and others will be definitely
         answered very soon, highly  likely  within  our
         own lifetime."

	I have absolutely no doubts that Mr.  Obina can!

            "Whether   this   so-called  catastrophe  is
         physical, natural or spiritual, I know 2 things
         for certain.  An event of great  importance  to
         mankind will  occur prior to judgement day.  An
         event that will enlighten us about  the  nature
         of our  existence.   An event that will signify
         that  mankind  is  entering  a  'new  age',   a
         'transition', .. perhaps the end."

   Ah, a  qualifier!    Now  when the alleged catastrophe fails to
materialize, Mr.  Obina can  claim  it  happened  on  some  astral
plane.

            "'In  a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, at
         the last trumpet; for  the  last  trumpet  will
         sound,    and   the   dead   will   be   raised
         imperishable, and we shall all be  changed.'  I
         Corinthians 15:52 NASB."

   "The  world  of  fools has such a store / that he who would not
see an ass / must bide at home, and boot his door, / and break his
looking glass."  La Monnaye

	Which of the two quotes about, Mr.  Obina's or mine, is true?
