






















                                   FLYING SAUCERS

                                  A Patented Look:

                                  - Into a Real -

                                    Phenomenon
































                                  PREFACE



          Many books have been published on the mysteries of ufo's.

        However, I know of few books that look at mans try to pro-

        duce hard core proof of there being real. That is why I'm

        publishing this book in order to vanquish at least part of

        the mysteries in the minds of people who are far from crazy.

          The book will speak for itself! But, I leave all conclus-

        ions up to the reader. The book is based on patents from

        the United States Patent Office. Keep in mind, I have

        seen other patents from Canada, England, and France that

        are as good. However, I'm acting on choice United States

        Patents in this first book to feel out the reader before

        publishing future books on the subject.

          All patents used are over 20 years old. The reasons being

        first, they are now public domain, and is the belief of the

        author to be the right starting point. Whether or not the

        devices where ever used as flying saucers is left up to

        the reader as well. That is where I stand on the subject

        of flying saucers. Is it myth or secret super-science?

          This book should bring a voice to the voiceless when

        someday you may say "I've seen them also!"
















                            - Introduction -

 

          To obtain patents one must know what they are looking

        for. There is more then one way to obtain them. The best

        way is to go to your local public library. However,

        depending on the library the patents may not be on hand.

          In other cases a full disclosure patent may not be on

        hand at the library. In big cities like Chicago, New York,

        Los Angeles, and others. The Federal Depository is the

        place where important documents are kept. They include such

       things as Freedom of Information Documents, Government Reports,

       U.S. Patents, and much more. Many smaller libraries contact

       these larger depositories to obtain this information for

       this reason. The price per patent is often higher then

       the $1.50 charged by the U.S. Patent Office. This is

       one reason way people in rural towns are better to order

       them through the Patent Office in Washington. The time it

       takes to recieve a patent from the government is about the

       same as your local town library. Plus, as I said the price

       differance maybe greater. Do to modernization of librar-

       ies. Some of them can run on-line patent checks. This helps

       you trace down other patents, plus the one you searched

       for. The price of the search can run into hundreds of dollars.

       This depends on the time, and and the size of each search.

          To obtain more information on the patents you can also

        send $2.00 per class listing. This is only patent numbers.

        Write down this address for further information:






          UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
          Patent and Trademark Office
          Washington, D.C. 20231


          Patents come in class and subclasses. You may find

        five patents one year and the following year none.

          This is do to the fact that in the following year

        no one was issued a patent for that subclass.

          You will not find these devices under Air Saucers,

        Because they are not called saucers. We have located two

       two primary class/subclasses that do contain devices

       that closely match modern UFO reports. They are class 244,

        subclass 62 - Electronic Aerocraft. Also class 310,

        subclass 308 - Reaction Motors, just to give you a

        hand in finding more of them on your own.


                            - Conclusion -


          After you view the patents I hope you have a much

        better understanding of the Flying Saucer and

        truth behind some of them. "Seek you shall find."

        As the Bible says. I did and found out more

        then I bargained for!

          I'm sure however a great number of flying saucers

        will remain a mystery. This may be mans attempt at

        building Flying Saucers. There is room for more

        truth whatever it turns out to be! After all the

        truth is what you make of it.






                            - Disclaimer -


          The author places no personal claim to the patents,

         nor to the intended use there of. He only points out

         there exsistance and leaves the reader to make up his,

         or her own mind as to what they are. Further, the

         author wishes to publish this booklet as a starting

         point for others to do there own research into the

         patents and the phenomenon. The author picked the

         patents only to give highlight to the story.


