                    Pleiadians

[View this file with word wrap on, otherwise each paraphaph will be on one very
long line]

This upload is primarily a summary of two books written by Billy Meier who has
extensive evidence of contact with humans from the Pleiadian constellation.
(Yes, Cliff Notes for Spacedudes.) These ETs have detailed knowledge of our
planet's history since before we misplaced the missing link. The philosophies
he relays are worthy of examination no matter what their source.

The following commentary is presented before the summary to explain the
difficulties of trying to explore the subject of ET activity and ways around
these difficulties. This commentary is necessary because of the hoaxing that
supposedly surrounds ET information and because of the debunking that defiantly
does.

Side note: You will see little use of the term "UFO". This term should have
been replaced with ETV a long time ago. Anyone who sees a large object silently
flash across the sky and make impossible right angle turns, knows that they
have seen an extraterrestrial vehicle. They have no doubt. There is nothing
unidentifiable about them. 

NOT A COVER-UP, A BLOCKAGE

As you may suspect this is not another endless quest to determine if ETs are
active on Earth. That is the question our governments are trying to perpetuate.
The reason for that is simple. The information that lies beyond that question
has so much potential impact that there is no way to tell who will be on top
after the dust settles. The Meier books contain the first installment on this
information. Additional installments can be found in library uploads called The
Most Terrible ETs. There will be three parts to The Most Terrible ETs.

WHAT? NO OPINION?

To find someone who truly has no opinion on a significant subject is rare.
Nevertheless many people claim to be undecided about ET activity on Earth.
Perhaps they are the rare person without an opinion or perhaps they consciously
or unconsciously fear ridicule. If you are truly undecided concerning the ET,
you may want to develop a more intuitive method of judgement. Realize that few
things worth knowing are provable. Try to distinguish your fear from your
intuition - fear is strong, intuition comes from deep inside. If you learn how
to do this your learning will accelerate.

On almost any subject worthy of debate, you can find many arguments for either
side. There comes a time when you have to make a judgement in order move
forward. So if you are undecided, stop reading this. Learn as much as
reasonable about ETs in our present and our history and make your judgement. If
you decide it is happening, return to this upload. Only then will you get the
full value from what is written here. If you decide against their existence on
Earth, at least you will have made a decision and you will have less to read.

HOW TO PROCEED TOWARDS PROOF 

If you have decided you need to do some research, be aware that there has been
a concerted effort, a campaign, to mislead the casual researcher. I have even
heard reports on national news that there is no evidence of ET activity on
Earth. There is literally tons of hard evidence and documentation (just a
macabre example; tons of mutilated cattle where all the incisions are made
ALONG THE CELL WALL of all the tissues). Acres of proof - intricate patterns of
grain that grows *horizontally* for weeks (this is the definitive proof of
genuine crop circles) after being bend over in a spiral layered process. 

Governments get their hands on almost all of the hard evidence and they are not
shy about going into the mail - William Herrmann "UFO Contact from Reticulum",
but enough documentation remains available. I have metal analysis and video
recordings of movie footage of ships. The movie footage was taken before
computer imagining was possible thus making it very difficult to fake. However,
such evidence soon becomes uninteresting once you accept the obvious.

ET INFO - WHAT IT IS, HOW TO FIND IT

There is a wealth of ET information, because there has been significant
communication for years. Photos of what their ships look like are of little
interest compared to what they say. 

They know much more about us than we do. They even know what the Yeti is. How
about their views on the cosmos, creation, the nature of the universe, the
purpose of life.... If your investigation goes down the correct channels you
will soon proceed beyond seeking proof to seeking knowledge and understanding
that is far beyond what you could learn from our "higher" education. 

Unfortunately, the correct channels can be elusive. Misleading information can
appear in apparently innocent forms. For example, I often hear that most
sightings are reported by crackpots. It is true that crackpots sometimes report
seeing spacemen and talking directly to God, but consider this; it is very easy
to determine the reputation of an individual. An investigator can determine the
reliability of a potential witness without packing a bag. The idea that most
reports are made by crackpots is an attempt at a general debunking. Don't fall
for it.

Also, there are many books on the market produced by uninitiated publishers who
don't know what is significant and what is not. These book contain photographs
that only propose that there was some kind of advanced vehicle in the air and
do not relate any exchange of information. I hope you do not have to read too
many of those before you realize that they are here and start wondering what
they know about Earth and the universe. 

The only truly significant books are those whose authors received information
from ETs. I will upload a file called LIST.TXT which, guess what? 

MAKING YOUR JUDGEMENT

When you read a book like this you have a much better chance of judging the
authenticity of the information, especially if the author reports the exact
words of the ETs. ETs are not going to say things the way we do, or have ideas
anything like ours. As the saying goes, "Truth is stranger that fiction". When
you read an authentic book of this nature you will know that you are reading an
incredibly great science fiction writer or the words of an ET. 

In Meiers case, the books "Messages From the Pleiades" are simply a transcript
of their conversations. This goes on for hundreds of pages. I have read Meier's
own writing in booklets. (They are available from a study group in Chatsworth
CA, P.O. Box 5108 zip 91311.) I have compared the two. It seems impossible that
he could write so magically for so many pages, and then write so poorly in his
own booklets. As a writer, I can tell you that writing even a little below ones
ability is *very* embarrassing. To do it page after page is unthinkable. 

AN ET BOOK SOURCE

If you have been investigating the ET question for a while you have probably
found enough evidence to convince you of the existence of ET activity on Earth.
The most reasonable way to proceed from that point is to find an investigator
that you suspect has the really significant information. One criteria would be
that they have been strongly debunked, discredited, and, judging from the usual
tactics of the government concerning ET activity, brutalized. 

I selected Wendelle Stevens (UFO Photo Archives, Box 17206, Tucson, Az 85710
(602) 721-9037). If you know his story then you know that he has been attacked
and dragged down a little too much. This is what makes getting at the truth so
difficult. The odds and the media are still in favor of the debunkers and
discreditors. 

CONTINUOUS DEBUNKING

Even in the early days (1950's) our government was using military personal to
impersonate civilians to gain the confidence of witnesses to get information
for their own files and to debunk the witnesses. Richard Miller (Star Wards) is
just one of these who has come forward. 

After our government's program to debunk any ET reported activity, was exposed
in "Project Blue Book" by Stieger, they had to develop a different method of
operation. I believe that the governments method was to establish their own
people as independent UFO investigators. These investigators would only verify
contacts where no significant information was passed to the contactee. In this
way the government could keep the general public unaware of the actual
situation on Earth and at the same time make the investigator seem progressive
because of the numerous (and insignificant) contacts they does verify. With
undercover government support these investigators would have the time and the
means to become the most well known and influential investigators. 

NOBODY WANTS US OUT THERE

Before I present the summary I would like to respond to a question that
constantly comes up. Although I try and simply quote the messages from ET's, I
would like to make an addition to their reasons as to why they do not open up
communication with us. We are looked down upon as a perverted and corrupt group
of humans whose fascination with material possessions and violence must not be
allowed to spread to other worlds. Some civilizations that visit us consider
our violent natures and selfishness so upsetting that they can not stand to be
near us. 

Space travel is not difficult or time consuming and we actually have most of
what is needed to start exploring the billions of stars that are literally
hours away from us. If we found planets where the population was less
developed, these people would be strongly influenced by our values. The
Pleiadians know and dread this for a very good reason. It happened here.

WHAT IS NEEDED 

If ETs decided to contact some officials on Earth, who could that be? Who would
not beg them for help and knowledge that we are probably not ready for? Can you
give medical knowledge to a planet facing over population when they have not
demonstrated reasonable birth control? Can you give a government better
technology when war breaks out all over the globe? It makes sense that we will
not be contacted in any official way until there is only one government and no
war. If space dudes interfere just a fraction of what they have done throughout
our history, real space travel may remain surprisingly elusive until we become
a much more civilized people. 

Sincerely, Paul Winter 72122,2715. Summary follows:

----------------------------------------

      PLEIADIANS

      Table of Contents

     SUMMARIZING THE BOOKS
     PROVING THE EXPERIENCE                       
		Why we didn't hear about it                      	
		Why not go public? 
     MEIER THE MAN  
     WHAT TO BELIEVE  
     WHAT THEY SAID ABOUT THEMSELVES                        
		About Erra  
     THEIR SHIPS                        
		The Great Spacers  
     THE GREAT VOYAGE                        
		Hyper-space  
     OTHER EXTRATERRESTRIALS  
     PLEIADIAN PHILOSOPHY                        
		Matter and Energy                        
		Universes and Creation                        
		Common and Spiritual Humans  
     HUMAN SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION                   
		Reincarnation  
     WHAT THE PLEIADIANS SAY ABOUT EARTH  
     THE GREAT FLOOD                        
		Our life span                        
		Who Made Us  
     DETAILS OF PLEIADIAN/EARTH HISTORY                        		Time
Line  
     OVER THE NEXT MILLENNIA 
     THE OUTSENT ONES RETURN                       	
		The Destruction of Atlantis
		Bigfoot/Yeti                       
		Modern White Man                       
		White, Indian, Jew                       
		The Control Continues                       
		Arus's Son Jehov 
     PLEIADIANS

-------------------------------------------

THE SUMMARY

     This is a summary of two books written by Eduard Meier. Meier claims that
these books are word for word transcripts of conversations between himself and
human like beings from a planet that orbits a star in the Pleiades
constellation. They also claim that they actually live on this planet in the
distant future. They have come here now because they feel that the time is
right to start a small seed of awareness. Awareness of the interstellar
situation and Earths condition relative to what is normal and right. The
transcripts presented in the first two books cover the first 55 of his 115
meetings with these beings. This summary was prepared for the edification of my
friends and colleagues. 

 SUMMARIZING THE BOOKS

     The two 400 page books that document the conversations between the
extraterrestrials and Meier, were transliterated from the original German
conversations. Transliterated refers to the process of directly translating
word for word without reconstructing phrases or expressions in order to adhere
to the second language's rules and usage. The usual type of translation was
attempted with three different translators but each effort contained too many
interpretations that reflected the religious or philosophical inclination of
the translator. As a result the usual type of translation was abandoned and the
transliteration was printed. This makes the actual text of these books often
difficult to understand. Therefore, the summarization technique of this booklet
has been to quote the most significant Pleiadian statements and present them in
a logical order. Any paraphrasing is clearly identified as such and kept to an
absolute minimum. 

Warning: Keep an eye out for quotation marks that are not preceded by an
identification, they indicate the beginning of a Pleiadian statement all of
which are transliterations. If you have trouble understanding a statement,
check to see if it is in quotes (indicating a Pleiadian statement). If it is
then you must accept that complete and unambiguous understanding may not be
possible.

 PROVING THE EXPERIENCE 

     The Pleiadians have been able to assist Eduard Meier with many forms of
proof of their contact with him. The different types of proof are as follows:

   1) Three metal samples that, according to American metallurgists, are not
producible by Earthly science. I have the results of the metallurgist's tests
(they take up 9 pages!) the most interesting observations are as follows:

        A) Strange, very uniform grain pattern with a layer of horizontal
grains sandwiched between layers of vertical grains again sandwiched between
that and another horizontal grain, etc., in a tight 90 degree latticework.

        B) Association of non-metallic crystals of strange structure and
extremely high conductivity for the elements.

        C) The ene-to-end formation of bond patterns on the crystal structure
and the spiral assembly or stacking of the crystals in the non-metallic
substance.

   2) The clearest photographs ever recorded of flying disks, without visible
wings or engines. An American UFO investigation group spent $60,000 (not
including their own time and equipment) on outside independent computer
analysis of three photos and found no evidence of tampering.

   3) Movie footage of a disk flying around the top of a tall tree. The top
branches move with the wind due to the passage of the ship while the lower
branches remain calm. The area within 70' of either side of the 100' tall tree
could be seen and was clear of any machine that could direct a concentrated
blast of air anywhere near the tree. Any machine that could produce a pulse of
forced air demonstrated on the film, from 70 feet, would have to be tremendous
indeed.

   4) Forty people in Meier's village, in conservative Switzerland, have come
forward and verified the presence of flying disks in the skies in their area.

   5) During a flight in a Pleiadian ship, Meier documented observations of
geological and physical features under the cloud layers of Venus. These have
never been seen by any telescope due to the perpetual clouds. His documentation
was later verified by an American space probe that penetrated the cloud layers.

Why we didn't hear about it. Among the active opponents to the belief in the
existence of older, more advanced civilizations are the fundamental
creationalists. This is a large group of people who have a large investment in
what Meier claims to be pure nonsense. Therefore, it is actually the normal
course of events, in encounters reporting, that someone finds something that is
supposedly damaging. So someone claimed to have found a small model of a
Pleiadian ship on Meier's farm. This is what apparently happened: 

Meier, from time to time, had some of his photos analyzed by computers. The
analysis reported that the objects in the picture were indeed 7 meter wide
craft suspended over valleys, forests, mountains.... without any wires or
supporting devices present. (Remember this was in the mid 70's before computer
manipulated photography was available.) This makes a very convincing proof
since such a large object is literally impossible to photograph in a still
condition when it is suspended over a significant height unless it has the
ability to hover. (A small object over a lesser height can be photographed in a
still condition by throwing it up and snapping the picture at the apex of its
rise). However, Meier knew that the computer people could have learned of the
craft's size from news releases made by his friends. Therefore, he had a couple
of models made and used them to make "fake" photographs to see if the computer
could really distinguish them from the real photographs. 

The computer analysis easily found the fake photos. The discrediting occurred
because a member of Meier's group of friends was actually a plant who was
looking for an opportunity to discredit him. This "friend" took the photos of
the model and told the news media that he had seen the model that was used to
make all the photos. The news media never asked Meier for his other photos or
the computer analysis results but simply ran with the story. 

If you consider a news organization's concern for its own credibility, you will
realize that they are more interested in disproving an ET contact than they are
in supporting one. Consider the case of the crop circles in England: In an
attempt to win money offered for an explanation, two old men claimed to have
made the crop circles using string and cardboard. The news organizations
quickly claimed that they had the explanation for the circles and thus made
themselves appear very cleaver. A few days later the men confessed to their
hoax. Almost a year later Time magazine ran their "Year in Review" where they,
once again, reported that the crop circle were made by two of men with
cardboard! 

In Meier's case the news organizations ran the story of the supposedly found
model. Meier's nonaggressive and anti-materialistic nature combined during this
situation and others to prevent the spread of his knowledge, but mostly because
of the model he was conveniently labeled a fraud and vanished into obscurity. 

Modern computer analysis can determine the distance of an object from the
camera (and therefore its size) if the photographer has another object of known
distance in the field of view. Many of Meier's photos qualified for this
analysis. The analyzed photos proved that the ships in his photos were 21 feet
in diameter. 

Despite the success of the debunking campaign Meier's opponents were still not
confident and attempted 17 assassinations. All failed due to warnings from the
Pleiadians who are, reportedly, extremely psychic and who helped Meier increase
his psychic sensitivity. 

Why not go public? The following quotes from the Pleiadians list a surprising
number of reasons why their high council forbids them to publicly reveal
themselves. (These first quotes from the Pleiadians will give you some idea of
how differently they present their thoughts. This makes understanding them,
sometimes, very difficult)

   1) "Evidence then is only valid if founded on knowledge and recognition,
which means only hard spiritual work enables real reasoning, but never only
seeing." By this I believe that the Pleiadians are saying that the only way we
will be able to obtain significant knowledge is to develop our spiritual
skills, not by searching for physical evidence. The Pleiadians clearly want
their contact with Earth, above all other effects, to generate spiritual
growth. 

   2) "It is neither our nor your (Meier's) mission to remove from doubters and
criticizers their spirit- obstructing activities." As we all know - you can not
force people to evolve, mentally or spiritually - they must want it themselves.

   3) "...or swamp over, within a short time, the world's dwellers by the
truth, as such is not of use for our mission. Only small groups are suited...
And by them the truth will slowly spread over generations and centuries to all
of mankind. You ones are effecting only the basic preparation work". (Keep in
mind that the Pleiadians live 1,000 years and have a hard time understanding
our rush for the truth.)

   4) "The present age of Aquarius demands thinking and spiritual evolution of
the humans of Earth. This can not be achieved by seeing and listening with the
physical organs, but only by reasoned thought. If we appeared officially in our
beamships and spacecraft, the effect of deliberation and of thought would
suffer, because the Earth human, in his present state of evolution, does no
longer deliberate and search that which he can see with his own eyes and hear
with his ears. Beyond the seeing and hearing, the interest is short-lived,
because that soon becomes a natural event to him, and he no longer cares. What
he knows no more interests him. His interest is only aroused by secrets for
which he can hunt..."

   5) From Asket (an extraterrestrial that works with the Pleiadians but is not
from the Pleiades): "As a final observation, in Earth terms, we are further
developed forms of life and no longer able to move in such levels of mind as
Earth beings. This is not pretentious on our part but a law of Creation. It is
the same with all forms of life - also with Earth humans. They as well, are no
longer able to move within levels lower to them, thus they are not able to move
in levels of these creatures who in Earth judgement are insane, but who in
truth are only underdeveloped. For to adjust to all tasks in the existing laws
of Creation, each world creates, in cooperation with the Universe, from time to
time, each according to level of evolution, one or more creatures of advanced
development through whom necessary facts may be transmitted. These higher
developed creatures have been called Prophets on Earth, who unfortunately in
their times, were almost without exception persecuted and pursued, which
condition still has not changed (this has been born out by Meier's
persecutions). And because this is the way it is, there is no necessity or
intention to make ourselves further known to all."

MEIER THE MAN

Meier's History. Meier spent most of his life being prepared by the Pleiadians
for the ordeal that would result from being their spokesperson. He was born in
1937. The Pleiadians showed him one of their large ships (a disk 2 to 3
football fields in diameter) when he was 5 years old. They soon started
telepathic communication of advice and guidance. At six he was taken for a
short ride in a ship during which very little conversation was exchanged. At
age eight the telepathic messages informed him that he was to be prepared for
an important mission, if he was willing. Soon he was taken for a 4 hour ride,
during which he was told that the telepathic instructions had educated and
evolved him to the intelligence and spiritual awareness of a 35 year old man.
During that ride he was told many things and also had an instrument placed on
his head about which he explained, "and suddenly I realized great things inside
of me. ...inside of me a great knowledge, recognitions of many kinds of old and
new things." The Pleiadian informed him that the machine had awakened abilities
that had been developed inside of Meier at an earlier time. 

Consider that it must be very difficult for Pleiadians who have spiritually
evolved far beyond us, to communicate with beings such as us. We are motivated
by things that they must view with disdain. They have educated Meier to think
and relate to them like no Earth Human is likely to. It is interesting to note
that Meier didn't attend school very often and didn't even start high school
although he speaks a number of languages including English. 

Meier's travels. Under Pleiadian guidance Meier embarked on extensive Earth
bound travels designed to toughen him for the ordeal that lay ahead. He was led
through many adversities in Africa and across the Indian Ocean to India where
he made his living as a snake catcher, a beggar, and an aesthetic. In India he
made his way to an Ashram, north of Delhi, where he studied and meditated.
There an extraterrestrial named Asket (not Pleiadian but working with them)
contacted him many times. He photographed her ship on a number of occasions,
sometimes in front of hundreds of witnesses. 

WHAT TO BELIEVE

     Throughout this writing I will occasionally summarize what the Pleiadians
said without continuously stating: "Meier said that they said." This might make
it appear that I believe everything that the extraterrestrials say is the
truth. That is not correct. I believe it is reasonable to doubt some of the
Pleiadians statements because of the following: 

   1) It seems that they want us to advance our spiritual awareness, yet they
actively withhold information from Meier. They also give Meier information
which he is not allowed to pass on to anyone else. If this information was
released many lives could have been saved, but it was still withheld. They have
also expressed dread concerning our attainment of space flight and the
resultant dissemination of our materialism and religious beliefs to
unsuspecting civilizations (those of lower advancement than us, who we may
encounter).

   2) I believe that they are still trying to influence us and consider us to
be so far beneath themselves that we may not deserve the truth or that we may
not be ready for the truth. 

     When I try to determine the truth as I read their words I follow my own
feelings and sometimes compare what they say to things I have learned
elsewhere. I would recommend that you keep in mind the above information as you
try to determine the truth in what the Pleiadians are telling us. If you do buy
the books that contain the conversations (publishers address and prices are at
the back of this booklet) keep in mind that they are difficult to understand
and that the many apparent contradictions you may first find, will tend to
disappear after careful study. 

One thing I do believe is that Eduard Meier is telling us the truth as he knows
it and that he is reporting his conversations accurately. After reading about
his lifestyle - extremely anti-materialistic, well- traveled, self educated,
family man, relentlessly hounded by curiosity seekers but slow to anger - I
find it very hard to believe that he would continue in a fraud especially since
he had been persecuted, arrested, abused, and nearly destroyed in every
imaginable manner. 

WHAT THEY SAID ABOUT THEMSELVES

Their History. Theirs is an ancient civilization that has had space travel for
230,000 years. Their original planet is actually in the direction of the Orion
constellation. They colonized three planets in the Pleiades constellation about
1500 years after achieving space travel. Semjase, Meier's main contact, is from
one of these planets called Erra, which is 500 light years from Earth. They are
part of a "union" of planets that comprise 50 billion souls. Each planet is
like one of our countries and has an executive institution which accepts advice
from the "High Council" which resides on a special planet and consists of
beings that are cross-dimensional (spirit/material). 

About Erra. Population - 400 million humans. There is peace and security, but
no money. If you need something you just go to the place that has it and it is
given to you. This trip is rarely necessary since every household is self
sufficient. The least educated person had 70 years of schooling. The expected
life span is 1000 - 1200 Earth years, which is normal for humans who are not
exposed to a sun such as we are.

Who They Are The Pleiadians claim to be the highest evolved creatures that
travel to Earth and are 1340 years more evolved than the next highest humans
that visit Earth. They also claim that they are our forefathers. They evolved
many thousands of years before us because their solar system is much older than
ours. In the distant past they visited Earth frequently and were known to the
majority of the Earth population as "Heavenly Sons". There was regular
communication and even trade. Throughout Earth history the Pleiadians started a
number of their own civilizations on Earth but they all failed. They left Earth
because of the effects of the Great Flood which greatly reduced their life
span. 

About Humans. The human life form is a form that often evolves on planets that
can support life, although there are many different types of intelligent life
forms. Some of these life forms are extremely different from human. Some are
closer to plant forms than animal.

 THEIR SHIPS

Although their explorer class ships, which they call beam ships, are very small
(21 feet in diameter) they contain a tremendous amount of equipment:

   1) Sublight drive - the propulsion system to accelerate the ship up to
lightspeed.

   2) Hyperdrive - the propulsion system that pushes the ship into hyperspace
(this occurs at the speed of light but not automatically and is disastrous if
not performed properly). Billions of light years can be crossed in seconds when
a ship enters hyperspace.

   3) A protective screen system that pushes atmosphere and interstellar dust
away from the ship without any effect on the ship. In this way they can fly
near light speed in our atmosphere and not burn up.

   4) Devices that not only make the ship invisible to radar but also to the
human eye. They have such control over light waves that they can make the ship
visible to one person, through a narrow corridor, but not visible to a person
standing a few feet away.

   5) An artificial gravity machine which allows them to always feel as if they
are standing on their planet despite 100 G turns or the zero gravity of space. 

   6) Computers that they communicate with telepathically. This is accomplished
by their control over genetics which allows them to create any life form they
wish. For their computers they created an animal that has a brain/machine
interface and is capable of living inside their computers. They communicate
with the animal's mind telepathically and the animal then communicates with the
computer.

   7) Some of the ships also contain devices that allow them to penetrate
portals into different time tracks. Near the Bermuda triangle are two such
portals. One connects to many millions of years back in time - to when
dinosaurs roamed Earth. The other connects to our future only 140 years from
now. Meier went into the old Earth world and took photos.

The Trip To Earth The Pleiadians travel here from Erra (500 light years) in
less than 1 hour. It takes them from 7 to 40 minutes (depending on the ship
they are using) to get away from planetary masses and to reach near light speed
at which point they jump into "hyper-space". A hyper-space jump of 500 light
years takes less then 1 second.

The Great Spacers. For missions requiring multiple ships or a larger contingent
of explorers and support equipment, the Pleiadians have a ship that can store
hundreds of explorer class beamships and support thousands of humans. Meier was
taken on a great voyage in such a ship. This ship measured 13 miles in
diameter! 

 THE GREAT VOYAGE

     At one point Meier was told to prepare to be away from home for a couple
of days. He was then flown to a great spacer and started on a tremendous voyage
that began with a visit to the Pleiadian home world. After this short
hyper-space "jump"  Meier was left with an impression of a very pleasant
experience. After flying around Erra and returning to the Great Spacer Meier
prepared to make the great voyage. The Pleiadians instructed him to sit at a
machine that would record his thoughts. This was done so he would not have to
remember his impressions during the next jump which was to be 7 minutes in
hyper- space! The distance of such a jump is beyond conception. The Pleiadians
said they had jumped a distance of 960 X 10 to the 33th power light years! (One
light year is 1.6 billion miles, at the present time our instruments in orbit
have only been able to detect galaxies 14 X 10 to the 9th light years away.)
This jump was to the edge of the galaxy that is the furthest from the center of
the concentration of galaxies in our universe. Meier and the Pleiadians went to
the edge of this galaxy because it is the location of a portal to another
universe. The Pleiadians had business with humans from this other universe. 

Hyper-space. The seven minute jump made Meier and the other humans on the great
spacer so sad that there was a few minutes of hugging and consoling immediately
after the jump. This sadness is due to the fact that the feelings that one has
during hyper-space are so overwhelmingly wonderful that leaving hyper- space is
experienced as a tremendous loss. Meier's record of his thoughts (in part) as
he looks out of the ship at the heavens during this long jump are as follows:
"...how fantastic, heavens and stars change. In a fraction of a second they are
nothing more than a whitish milky mass...then there is darkness...suddenly  all
is merging into a golden color, and now everything is like silver. By, my dear,
this glistening light, this beaming shining splendor!... Dear, this must be
eternity the glistening light of eternal...but see, there is nothing besides
the eternity; man alive how marvelous! Marvelous? Man alive, that is itself
marvelous. Eternity and marvelousness are one and the same. Only why do I
separate it? Why do I put the eternity into terms of time? Time does not exist,
and the eternity is marvelous, Man, just what is this? This tranquility, this
peace - what is it? How could I have achieved this? Love, oh that deep all
encompassing love. Nothing is there but love: wonderful, marvelous. Oh yes, I
am, but I am not. Everything is so deep, and full of love. Of course, I am
eternity, and I am inside of eternity. How could I ever forget this? Oh, yes, I
am a human being, how can I...why do I forget that? I am only a guest in
eternity and those loving voices, calling for me, from where is it
coming?...Who is calling me? I see nothing; man alive, I am nothing any more. I
can't see myself. I am eternity, in eternity..." After the jump Semjase said,
"We have all been inside the timelessness, and would all like to stay there.
But we are not ready to stay, because we have to absolve the way of evolution
step-by-step as you also must do, dear friend. I know quite well, how painfully
your heart aches now, as we all have experienced the same thing."

 OTHER EXTRATERRESTRIALS 

     The Pleiadians report that over 100 races of aliens have visited Earth.
There are also seven races that maintain bases on Earth. One of these bases is
located on Mt. Shasta, which has been the sight of many UFO observations. These
aliens occasionally visit the towns in the neighboring area and are known by
their long, curly, golden hair.

 PLEIADIAN PHILOSOPHY

     Their philosophy is full of spiritualism and recognizes that science can
not be fully understood if separated from spirit. They believe in a force that
they call Creation. 

Every living thing has a part of this Creation within it and it is what ensouls
them and it never dies. In the case of animals and humans, it returns again and
again to the same planet. In the case of humans it evolves, spiritually, up
until the last perfection. 

Matter and Energy."The Universe consists of matter or energy. Both terms,
energy and matter, represent basically one and the same, but precisely in their
separate forms: fine-material and coarse material. Coarse- material is matter;
fine-material is energy...matter is the embodiment of idea. As energy, the
matter is fine- material, and as matter, just highly concentrated and
condensed. One can generate both kinds by apparatus, which you already do in
different ways, Normally they are generated quite naturally, that is by
spiritual force, which is proceeded by idea, The basic source for this is The
Creation, a vast spiritual reservoir, a factor which again embodies the
original energy. From it rises idea. The force of spirit then (which and who
again embodies energy) condenses and concentrates the idea to fine-material
energy, which then by still higher concentration becomes coarse-material, or
matter." To clarify this statement Meier asked, "This in fact, the whole
Universe is, inside and out, only of fine-material and coarse-material energy
(which is) compressed and concentrated idea?" Semjase's reply was, "Certainly."

Universes and Creation. "Wonders upon wonders are hidden within the kingdom of
spirit. The visible universe with which the human being occupies himself
(consciously) is only a small spot within this marvelous, unlimited, spiritual
existence Creation. Universes like this one are in the innumerable millions
within the infinite spiritual existence of The Creation, What is visible to the
physical eyes of a human being represents only a dot in infinity. What is not
visible to man's eyes is immeasurable, inconceivable, and unthinkable,
confusing his human intelligence and capacity. All the universe he sees is only
a simple one of many such, which must be counter in myriads, because there do
exist universes inside of universes, universes opposite universes, universes
above universes, universes below universes and universes outside of universes,
in this first cause, mighty, all-powerful intelligence existing within The
Creation. And with this immense spirit, with these original forces of
existence, of Creation, the spiritual intelligence of the human being is
connected, because a fraction of this spiritual intelligence of The Creation
lives in every human being as spirit, and ensouls him."

Common and Spiritual Humans. "Milliards of human beings look up at the stars in
the heavens without real cognition. Yet astronomers, when they look up at the
heavens, discover whole new worlds and write books about them, What they see
and recognize, the others do not see, at all and they do not understand, even
if they look in the same place. Although their eyes see they are blind. This is
similar to the difference in view point between a common and a spiritual human
being; the one who lives from spiritual and Creational law, sees and recognizes
all around, within each form of life, all objects, each thought and act, within
each creature, within all nature, and also in all conceivable circumstances and
events, The Creation. 

"The human being is always spiritually great and constructive. The Spirit, the
spring of all the infinite Creational build-up, is the innermost character of
the human being itself. The outer human being is full of limitations, because
this is not him, but only his frame, his material body of limitation, of
mis-leading matter, a font of labor and pain, limited in cognition and will.
When the outer being looks materially at his inner being, he sees little but
the form and figure. Yet, if he looks with the spiritual eyes of cognition, and
he knows that this all-revealing consciousness in him is also in all others,
even though they do not know it, then his manner changes fundamentally as he
considers his fellow creature. He then no longer simply looks at a man, a
woman, or a child, but sees the other as a carrier of Spirit, which knows all
about itself and its existence, and wants to reveal itself to everyone if only
the chance were offered. A human being can be deprived of all his possessions
and be exiled from his homeland, but from his inner spirit no one can exile
him. 

"So the human being should always be conscious of this Creational Part, without
which he could not take one breath - could not generate one thought, without
which he could neither recognize or see, hear or experience. Thus the great
wise ones of all times say: "The Creation spirit is nearer the creature than
his own breath."      

"The spirit can live without the light of physical eyes, ears arms, legs, even
without outer reason and consciousness. But always there is the Creational
force behind all. The more light his spiritual intellect receives, the more his
personality gains force. He becomes aware of the past and the future, which
shape his eternal present. The whole spiritual realm is visible to those who
can look inside and understand the Creation present in all. The human being is
separated one from another in space, but connected to all in The Creation. If
he does not know The Creation, he can be misled and deceived by false
doctrines. A human being in contact with his Creation realizes himself
everywhere in space and time, and within all matter. He is everything within
himself, and can awaken to The Creational in everything and affect it by
recognition and experience."

 HUMAN SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION

Reincarnation. Humans evolve through seven main periods. Each of the seven main
periods are divided up into seven sub-periods. Earth humans are now between
periods 2 and 3 depending on their spiritual advancement. I will sum up each of
the seven periods by listing the more descriptive sub-periods in each. I
suspect that Semjase has had her work cut out for her to attempt to translate
highly advanced spiritual concepts from their language to German. I would
imagine that their language has developed along with a very high regard for
spiritual matters and therefore has many words that do not have any
counterparts in German.

Note: The sub-periods (indicated by *) are listed in order of advancement and
that each step to the next sub-period can represent many lifetimes.

This is all a direct quote from Semjase:

1) Primary Life

    *     Primary development of intellect and spirit - humans of this level
are considered insane, or idiots, but they are merely new spirits who have to
first form themselves. Insanity can also be caused by damaged bodies and the
confusion that results can affect the spirit for future lifetimes.

2) Reasoned Life

    *     Primary development of reason. *     Primary acknowledgement of
higher influences. *     Belief in higher influences without having the
knowledge. *     Belief in higher forces, superstition, fear of evil,
veneration of God - germinating time for religions. *     Primary cognition of
the true reality. Research, knowledgeable development, first spiritual
cognition and their exercise. Spiritual healing, telepathy (present position of
the average Earth human). *     Primary development of knowledge and wisdom.

3) Intellect Life

    *     Advanced development of intellect, high technology, second
utilization of spiritual forces, primary creation of living forms. *
Realization and exercise of knowledge, truth, and wisdom, slow breakdown of
accepted beliefs (a few Earth spiritual scientists are at this level). *
Acknowledgement and utilization of nature's laws, generation of super
technologies, second creation of living forms. *     Natural exercise of wisdom
and knowledge in the cognition of spiritual forces.

4) Real Life

    *     Clear knowledge about reality as absolutely real. *     Utilization
of spiritual knowledge and spiritual wisdom. *     Cognition of the reality of
the Creation and its laws. *     Living according to Creational law.
Purification of spirit and intellect. *     Creation of first living creatures.

5) Creational Life

    *     Creating and controlling of life forms. *     Construction of
mechanical/organic living things. *     Spiritual development of forces for
control of material and organic forms of life. *     Will conditioned mastery
of life in all its forms and sorts. *     Reminiscences of earlier lifetimes.

6) Spiritual Life

    *     Acknowledgement and realization of Spiritual Peace, universal love
and creational harmony. *     Living according to pure Spiritual knowledge. *
  Spiritual creating and creations. *     Dis-embodying of spirit from organic
matter. *     First pure spiritual existence. *     Final spiritual existence.
*     Passing over into Creational consciousness.

7) Creational Life

    *     Twilight sleeping during seven periods of rest - this is a tremendous
period of time, about 2100 trillion years, during which the whole universe
(although apparently not others) ceases to exist. During the twilight sleep
there is neither time nor space. All lies inside the infinite bosom of Creation
and null-time. After its awakening it begins to create all things anew. *
Creating of living forms. *     Creating of new spirit in improvement of the
Creation.

Final Development. When discussing longevity with Meier, Semjase said, "...a
human may become some thousand, or even hundreds of thousands, years old when
he reaches a certain level of spiritual development and evolution. But beyond
this state, the spirit no longer needs a material body. He then does live in
pure spirit and within such high spheres that one can no longer communicate
with him from this level.

 WHAT THE PLEIADIANS SAY ABOUT EARTH

Our Moon or Why They Became Interested In Earth. About 230,000 years ago,
before the migration to the Pleiades, a comet came through the Heavenly Sons
original solar system (not the Pleiades), killed two thirds of their
population, and caused the destruction of one of that systems planets. Some
pieces of that planet joined the comet and some fell into their sun but one
large piece flew off into interstellar space. They kept tabs on its path and
noticed that it was eventually entered a solar system and was captured by a
planet. The planet turned out to be habitable and actually had an aboriginal
race of humans developing within its beautiful landscapes. That planet was our
Earth. This is an explanation for the fact that when the moon rocks, taken
during our moon landings, were examined they were found to be millions of years
older than the Earth. 

THE GREAT FLOOD 

The cause. In the year 8104 BC a large comet came very close to Earth and very
nearly destroyed it. The results of this close encounter were worldwide
catastrophes and a shift in Earth's orbit. One of the catastrophes is today
called the Great Flood. Before the comet came, Earth had a 40 hour day and was
closer to the sun but protected from the sun's radiation by a very thick cloud
envelope. When the orbit was shifted away from the sun the cloud envelope was
made to precipitate due to the drop in temperature and we had 40 days and 40
nights of rain. The theory that the Great Flood was caused by the precipitation
of a cloud envelope has been proposed by scientists, but the problem with the
theory was that there was no explanation for the planetary change in
temperature.

Our life span. With the loss of the protective cloud layer we were exposed to
lethal amounts of our sun's radiation and our life span was greatly reduced.
From the biblical age of 600 - 900 years to its present value.

Revisits. This comet has a period of 575 years. The last time it came close to
Earth was in 1680, but that passing was not close due to the Earth's position
relative to the sun. It will come dangerously close once again in 2255. The
presence of this comet explains many physical features about our Earth such as
the large coal deposits which result from huge amounts of vegetation being
crushed deep beneath the surface - something that could only occur from forces
of an interplanetary scale. Other great disturbances that could only be created
by interplanetary forces and which Earth seems to have many  suggests a regular
occurrence of planetary disturbance such as a comet:

     An Amazonian Inland Sea was emptied into the Atlantic as shown by the
black silt hundreds of feet deep that stretch too far into the ocean to be
caused by the Amazon River.

     The Gobi Sea was emptied into the Arctic Sea and large islands in the
Atlantic, the Indian, and the Pacific Oceans completely disappeared.

More information about these disturbances can be found in Man, Whence, How and
Whither by Leadbeater.

Venus. The Pleiadians also claim that this comet pulled a planet into our solar
system where our sun captured it and it became the second planet from the sun -
Venus. Our scientists have already noted that Venus exhibits unusual properties
which suggest it was a recent capture and not part of our original solar
system.

Who Made Us. The Pleiadians claim that they created the Earth's white race
which was a combination of the aboriginal race on Earth and their own race.
Other races on Earth are from other solar systems. They are the result of
either attempted colonization, "prison planet" exiles or stranded explorers.
One group of stranded space travelers has maintained a fairly pure race and
lives in Western China. A book has been written about them entitled Sun Gods In
Exile by Caryl Robins-Evans, published in England by Nevil Spearman in 1978.

 DETAILS OF PLEIADIAN/EARTH HISTORY

The following time line was created by me to assist in following the chain of
events as described in the text of this section. The dates around 200,000 are
approximate.

     Time Line

230,000 BC   - A comet almost destroyed the Pleiadians original home planet and
sent a large piece of another planet towards our solar system. 

229,100 BC   - Heaven's Sons start to build their interstellar empire, Earth
eventually came under their control, 

228,600 BC   - The Empire is thrown into war, Asael escapes with 360,000 humans
and settles in the Pleiades. 

228,200 BC   - Pleiadians start to explore the galaxy, get involved with Earth
again. ???- Earth's Own Civilization lasts some thousands of years but
destroyed itself. 

50,000 BC    - War on the Pleiades, 70,000 Pleiadians flee to Earth under
Pelegon, 10,000 year civilization, a deadly war ends it and all Pleiadians
flee. 

33,000 BC    - Descendants of the Pelegon era who settled on far distant
planets return to Earth, build Atlantis and Mu, 20,000 years peace. 

13,000 BC    - War, many but not all flee, some - the Outsent Ones, flee to a
nearby planet (not in Pleiades)  

11,000 BC    - The Outsent ones return to Earth, attack and destroy Atlantis,
many Pleiadians return home. 

8,104 BC     - The great flood. The Outsent ones are still in control of Earth
but now take a "behinds the scenes" role, Arus dies, Jehov takes over. 

160 BC       - Jehov dies, Kamagol I then Kamagol II lead the Outsent ones now
known as the Thule Society or the Gizeh Intelligence.

Pleiadian Space Empire 229,100 BC. Nine hundred years after the comet almost
destroyed their original home planet the inhabitants of that planet started
building giant spaceships with hyper-space ability and started to explore many
solar systems. They called themselves "Heaven's Sons" (I will use this term to
distinguish them from the current Pleiadians who are actually their
dependents). 

Where Heaven's Sons found civilizations, they conquered them in one sided
battles using nuclear bombs. The inhabitants became subjects of Heaven's Sons
but on most planets their rule was never completely accepted. Semjase indicated
that Earth was one of these originally conquered planets. About these planets
she said "...having become tired of the Godly scientists, the oppressed people
rose up against them, at first by silent revolution. Oppressed by the spiritual
forces and the greater knowledge of Heaven's Sons, the nations were forced to
bow in subjugation to their rulers. But their will for freedom inspired them to
prepare secretly for a battle." Semjase further indicated that Heaven's Sons
have a history of placing themselves in a position as Gods and requiring
something like worship. 

The Empire Breaks. When the wars started they spread to many planets and some
were destroyed (apparently Earth was abandoned sometime during these wars). A
scientist named ASAEL took this chance to make himself independent and to flee.
Secretly he succeeded in taking possession of a large fleet and fled under
heavy war activity. They flew for many years through space until one day they
encountered a sun-system in the Pleiades which offered life-developing
possibilities for them far from their home system. They settled there and three
hundred years passed before they started to explore the universe again.

Earth Revisited. These explorers, now from the Pleiades,  eventually returned
to Earth, long after the Heaven's Sons from the original empire had left. They
established a second civilization on Earth but struggle for control broke out
again and once more they left Earth.

 OVER THE NEXT MILLENNIA

During this tremendous time span, Earth was continually watched and controlled,
to some extent through expeditions from the Pleiades. Through these long years
the Pleiadians, as well as other extraterrestrials, occasionally attempted to
settle Earth. Some Earth/Alien civilization grew large but with growth there
was always an increasing struggle for power and wars would break out and the
advanced aliens with their space travel would flee to their home worlds. Behind
they would leave the less intelligent aborigines who would eventually resort
back into savagery. However, there appears to be one exception:

Earth's Own Civilization. Semjase is not clear on this, but it seems that an
Earth human race developed a culture of its own during this time. This
civilization existed some thousands of years but was eventually destroyed due
to the usual thirst for power. 

 50,000 BC

War on the Pleiades. During this time a war broke out in the Pleiades and some
70,000 Pleiadians fled to Earth where they settled. Their leader was named
Pelegon. 

10,000 Year Civilization. Pelegon maintained tight control through his nearly
200 sub-rulers. This civilization lasted 10,000 years and extended into all the
Earthly continents. Eventually struggles for power caused a deadly war to rage
all over Earth. Without exception all was destroyed and only a few thousand
humans survived on Earth, while others fled in space ships, some of which
settled distant worlds. 

The Next Great Civilization 33,000 to 13,000 BC. For 7,000 years no Pleiadians
returned to Earth and the aboriginal humans left behind became completely wild.
Around 33,000 BC descendants of the Pelegon era who settled on distant worlds
returned (Other books I have read indicate that this is about the same period,
according to archeological findings, that the first signs of Cro-Magnon man, or
modern man, suddenly emerged). They built on Atlantis and Mu and created great
cities. For 20,000 years they lived in friendship and peace. Around 13,000 BC a
few scientists became overcome by the old thirst for power and tried to seize
the government. Once again many Pleiadians fled but this time to a neighboring
solar system and were, from then on, known as the "Outsent Ones". On Earth the
civilization continued to some extent.

Evil in a 2,000 year Exile. The Outsent Ones that fled the last great Earth
civilization might have done better by remaining on Earth. On their new planet
they fell under an evil order and strict control. By mutation and their
sciences they extended their life spans to some thousands of years. (One can
only imagine the fear of assassination and rebellion that their leaders must
have lived under. I believe that, as a result, the leaders became obsessed with
obedience and control of their subjects and that this mindset remains with them
today.) By the year 11,000 BC their thirst for power led them back to Earth. 

Negative Earth. All the attempts to establish a civilization on Earth had ended
in bloody war. Therefore, the Pleiadians began to believe that there is a
negative force that surrounds Earth. When they had evolved to the point where
they could detect such forces they became convinced that this was true. 

 THE OUTSENT ONES RETURN

The Destruction of Atlantis. Upon their return, in 11,000 BC, the Outsent Ones
settled in the "high north" and in the area of Florida from where they
continuously attacked Atlantis and Mu, eventually destroying them. Many people
from the defeated areas moved to the Pleiades. Those that did not escape were
forced into servitude. Even after the victory their leader, Arus, "The
Barbarian", led a severe and bloody regime. Arus had a group of sub-leaders
who, against Arus' orders, captured wild Earth aboriginal women and mutations
(who were distant descendants of former humans from cosmic space) and mated
with them. This, combined with genetic engineering resulted in the creation of
new races and species.

Bigfoot/Yeti. One of the gigantic creatures that was the result of this
breeding spree is still alive today because of the longevity knowledge that
these evil people learned during their exile. Semjase claims that the Yeti have
a life span of 15,000 years and that there are seven living in the world today,
but in very remote locations. She also reported that we did indeed record, on
movie file, an authentic female. I believe I saw this film as a "short" before
the main feature in a movie theater sometime during the 1960s. The documentary
showed some short footage of a female standing up and running/trotting away.
This is also how Semjase described the film. If you saw the footage then you
have seen a true bigfoot.

Modern White Man. The highest sub-leader under Arus found a beautiful female
Eva (Earth aboriginal) and mated with her. The resultant male offspring was of
pleasing form. He was called Adam. A second child was born - this time a
female. In later years they were mated to each other. Thus was the start of our
Caucasian race.

White, Indian, Jew. When Arus found out about this interbreeding he was
furious, because he originally forbid it. Although he killed many of his
sub-leaders, Arus took into his control three races of humans who emerged from
this breading: Caucasian, Indians (I assume Asian), and Jews. He placed himself
above them and allowed himself to be venerated and adored. He imposed harsh and
severe laws and demanded blood when there was any disobedience. His ruthless
demand for complete control and obedience was the result of the fear of
assassination and war that his society had lived under for centuries. There was
no devious scheme or manipulation they would not use to keep control over
Earth's population, even though at the time we were still extremely backward.
Currently, our peaceful development and increased spiritual awareness pose very
real threats to them. 

The Control Continues. During the research for his book, Gods Of Eden, an
historian, William Bramley, set out to find a third party activity or group
that may have been contributing to the excessive high occurrence of wars on our
planet. What he found made him so discouraged that, on a number of occasions,
he stopped writing his book. He felt that no one would believe him. However,
the evidence was too convincing (his book is 600 pages and he claims that it is
only the tip of the iceberg!) and he returned to his writing. 

Bramley found evidence of the influence of the Outsent ones in many government
and civic organizations and suddenly the government's reaction to UFOs starts
to make sense. Bramley gave the Outsent ones a functional name: The Custodial
Society or Custodial Forces. As the name implies Bramley proposes that they
consider the Earth their possession and that they create Machiavellian (divide
and control under cover) activities and establishments to insure that they will
keep their silent control over it.

Reduced Extraterrestrial Population. At some point in time the descendants of
the Outsent Ones became secluded, moved underground, and only interacted with
Earth humans "behind the scenes". I assume that this happened at the time of
the great flood (8,000 BC) and was mostly due to the dangers of exposing
themselves to our unprotected sun. 

Arus's Son Jehov. Jehov took over command from his father but he was an even
worse ruler, demanding blood and death from the Earth races for any
disobedience. Semjase called Jehov the "unjust and cruel one" and agrees with
Meier that by his order he allowed the bestial slaughter of many Earth humans
and that he demanded "unhesitatingly, innocent human blood ...and coerced
innumerable human beings towards damage..." (I understand this to mean
spiritual damage). His motivation was a desire to "subject the Earth's
creatures". My understanding is that he desired to feel the power that comes
from having people regard him as great and powerful and following his
directions on a large scale. The method he used to accomplish this was to cause
confusion and then fear, fear of retribution if his way was not followed. Jehov
died only 2160 years ago (do not forget these descendants of the Outsent Ones
had mastered longevity and protected themselves from our sun's damage), but his
followers keep his tradition and, according to the Pleiadians, are active
today. 

Jehov's Successor Kamagol I. Kamagol I was put down by his own son Kamagol II
who rules today. His group is known by many names among them: the Thule Society
and the Gizeh Intelligence. It seems like paranoia but Semjase claims that a
large number of these descendants of the Outsent Ones are still active today.
They are considered by the Pleiadians to be evil and the cause of many
atrocities which have resulted in the loss of millions of humans during our
history. The Gizeh inspire these aggressions supposedly to spread their control
(divide and control). The Pleiadians wish very much to remove the Gizeh, but
unfortunately their bases are underground and the Gizeh have been able to
screen themselves and their activities from Pleiadian detection. The Thule
Society first appeared openly in pre-Hitler Germany and helped put Hitler in
power. Nazi doctrine clearly stated that it was their goal to prepare the world
to be ruled by ET supermen who lived underground and were the creators of the
Aryan race. More can be learned about the Thule Society and other "Brotherhood"
activities in William Bramley's book, The Gods of Eden.

Insurance. Evidence of extraterrestrial contact is constantly being lost or
stolen. The organizations that the Gizeh have promoted are full of well meaning
people who are most likely responsible for this destruction of evidence. It is
clear that the Gizeh have much to lose if the idea of extraterrestrial activity
becomes widely accepted. 

If the Gizeh do exist then they would have been working hard to convince us
that belief in their existence is foolishness. Is there a way to detect this
effort? Perhaps there is. If Meier's evidence proves that a benevolent
extraterrestrial group does exist, why do we scoff at the thought of a
self-serving extraterrestrial group? Is it not actually more believable?
Nevertheless we resist believing in either of these groups in an unusually
strong way. Why? Have we been the victims of the ultimate manipulators of all
time? How can we tell if they have influenced us? Perhaps this is a way -
examine our own reactions. Do we react quickly and strongly (on an emotional
level) to stories of UFO and extraterrestrials when our usual method of
judgment is careful reasoning and examination of the reported facts? 

 SOME GOOD NEWS

Ashtar Sheran. Many people have heard this name in regards to channeling. He
often establishes telepathic contact with channel type Earth humans. In
actuality he is the cousin of Kamagol II. His main mission had been to
unconsciously lead different groups of humans beings of Aryan descent (in
Germany, America, Argentina and Brazil) on a certain course that would assist
the plans of Kamagol II. 

Fortunately Ashtar Sheran has had a change of heart according to Quetzal, a
Pleiadian who reported the following to Meier (I sympathize with the reader
regarding the writing style, but this is an actual quote and you must decide
what this Pleiadian means.): "...but in the course of time Ashtar Sheran
achieved many cognition and changed his behavior. Whereas hitherto he only
acted according to the plans of Kamagol II, he now unnoticeably changed his
tactic and influenced his first line of hosts (descendants of the Outsent Ones)
which he needed. Step by step he obtained their confidence and they
acknowledged him as their actual leader. So it was easy for him to join step by
step into the obtained recognitions of the truth, and also to deal with them
with the knowledge of his host. In his agreement they separated from the
command of Kamagol II and transmit his messages to different Earth human
beings. But because he is still not fully conscious of the truth,
contradictions arise which must be taken into account. Nevertheless his
messages are mainly of very true matters and give enjoyment. For reasons of
security for his host and himself he gives unclear and not entirely correct
information in certain concerns, which is excusable. So as well the information
from him about where he stays is not correct, but still does not injure his
achieved love for the truth. It is for this security for him and his people
that they do not extend themselves into conflicts with the hosts of Kamagol II.
Despite all of our abilities we have not found out his place of stay. Evidently
he and his people have received by some circumstance very advanced knowledge of
security means, which they exercise, and which with all our possibilities we
are not able to explore. But this is not important, because such events happen
often, when single groups separate themselves from a tyranny and search for the
way of truth. So Ashtar Sheran may stay with his people in a distant star
system, or even in another dimension, where they are absolutely safe from
Kamagol's reach. Nevertheless they are able to come for their task because
their spiritual and technical capabilities are able to overcome all distance in
space and time." 

AVAILABLE (sometimes) BOOKS & VIDEOS (prices are old but close - I am not an
agent of these companies and receive no benefit from their sales.

Books. The two 400 page books with the contact notes (conversations) that were
used to make this summary (they include a few black and white pictures):
Message From the Pleiades Volummes One and Two - $38 each. Two large (12" x
12") "coffee table" type color photo books of 70 pages of 100 lb enamel stock -
very good photo quality paper, are also available pending publishers supply:
Contact From the Pleiades Vol I and II  -  $55 each.

VIDEOS. There are three videos about the Meier contacts: The Movie Footage - 60
minutes, $49, The Metal Analysis - 45 minutes, $39, The Meier Chronicles - 90
minutes, $59. Or all 3, $99

Posters   Tree Scene - clearest picture of a ship - $15.95         Sunlight
Scene - Sunset behind a ship, my favorite - $15.95

You might want to ask for a free catalog since there are other UFO videos and
books available. Send check or money order (a money order will reduce the
response time by 2 weeks) to: 

Genesis III Publishing  Drawer 25962 Munds Park, Az. 86017   (602) 286-9419

Another source of UFO books is: UFO Photo Archives Box 17206 Tucson, Az 85710
 (602) 721-9037 
