

7/50: KILL THEM ALL part 1
Name: Michael Luciano #61 @7317
Date: Mon Oct 21 05:53:57 1991
From: Reality Check (Arlington/Alexandria/Roanoke, Virginia)

KILL THEM ALL
=============
10-21-91

I fear that my outspoken militant position regarding UFOs may lead people to 
believe that I am over-simplifying the issue.  The issue is far more complex, 
and profound than I can express.

My instincts are clear to me on this matter.  What I lack is sufficient 
knowledge to pinpoint what it is my instincts are telling me.  My instincts 
tell me that the horrible reality we face is nothing compared to the obvious.  
The obvious I speak of are the human and animal dissections, the abductions, 
the genetic experimentation, and the occupation of our land.

But there is more, and at this time, only the elitist government officials 
know of it.  Will you please take a moment to think about this phenomenon?  
Will you think about the implications of their presence among us?

My friends, they have been with us since the beginning of our time.  Our 
involvement with them began when WE began.  They have always watched us, they 
have always manipulated us.  They have been made to be gods in the skies, they 
have been watched in awe.  And now, they have manifested themselves as a 
visible entity to THOSE WHO HAVE AUTHORITY OVER US.  And together, they 
co-operate in a code of silence, as business partners who only care about 
their own agendas.

But my instincts tell me of a horror more threatening than this.  My instincts 
tell me that the profound implications of this continual alien intervention is 
about to lead to something truly hideous, an abomination to our sense of 
goodness.

Consider the size of what is about to occur.  We are on the brink of a 
horrible truth that will change every aspect of our reality forever.  

My senses tell me that these entities are changing what we consider to be 
reality.  Their agenda, so to speak, perhaps, is to twist our reality, to rip 
apart any inter-dimensional barrier that might exist between our world and 
theirs.

What we consider to be absolute time and space is not absolute, ladies and 
gentlemen, but relative.  It too, can be manipulated.  And I believe, as my 
instincts are clear, that they are hurting us in a horrible and inconceivable 
way.

I've heard allegations that the Alien Presence has taught scientists certain 
aspects of time/space manipulation... but not everything.  Indeed, quantum 
physics can get scarey, as even =its= implications are incredibly profound.

I firmly believe that the U.S. government has voluntarily released information 
on UFOs; not because we are entitled to the Truth, but because the U.S. 
Government is literally overflowing with information regarding the phenomenon 
and the frightening technologies acquired from it.  

What you and I see, ladies and gentlemen, is simply the tip of a huge mountain 
of information.  The real horror, is still waiting to be discovered.  The real 
secrets, are still hidden.  And most of our populace, has not a clue.

The Alien Presence continues to manifest and multiply itself throughout the 
world.  Their Presence is becoming more tangible, like a stake driven into our 
sense of reason.  Now is the time.  We have reached a point in our evolution 
in which they see a "convenience" in bringing us into another stage of 
existence.

They are not a barbaric race of beings.  Their hostilities penetrate our 
minds, not our hearts.  From the human dissections and stolen fetuses, to the 
hidden agenda itself... their hostilities are not militant in nature.  Their 
hostilities are not for military gain.  It is for a gain that I cannot 
understand, yet.




Read:(1-50,^7),? :

8/50: KILL THEM ALL / final
Name: Michael Luciano #61 @7317
Date: Mon Oct 21 05:56:12 1991
From: Reality Check (Arlington/Alexandria/Roanoke, Virginia)

We must resist.  It is our duty.  We deserve to exist, to be, to live as we 
are now.  The world as we know it is about to come to an end.  We are about to 
enter a new age, and unless we fight for our existence, they are going to 
destroy us as human beings.

They continue to tear the fabric of time and space, of our reality.  The 
elitists within this government are obsessed with learning about that 
technology, rather than dealing with that technology being used against us 
right now.  This is not some petty concern, as war should be declared 
sparingly.  But if ever there is a time to force the government to enlighten 
us, THE TIME IS NOW.

Consider the seriousness.  Consider the implications.  Consider the future.  
The coming years will be bloody, and whatever comfort you are now in will be 
lost and you will be forced to take a side.  Waiting and hoping and fear of 
spilling blood, will kill all of us.

The time to launch an assault on our military has come.  We must gather our 
forces as patriotic Americans to launch a strike on a traitorous military base 
in this country.  We must kill as many government officials in this base as 
possible, because in protecting our common enemy, the Government has become an 
enemy.  

It has been rumored that said base has nuclear detonators beneathe its 
surface.  In times when "national security" is at severe risk, it is rumored 
that military authorities have seen fit to detonate a nuclear device under the 
base in order to destroy anything and anyone that might reveal secrets to 
domestic and foreign forces.

Do you see what type of establishment we are up against?  They would rather 
blow up their own country than to inform its public.  That is why we must not 
be terrorists.  We must be annihilators.  We must use sweeping force against 
definite targets so that we can eliminate their capabilities of "defense."  We 
must not occupy the base, we must storm it and retreat with the goodies.  We 
must hit and then we must run.

Understand that we will not merely be fighting to be left alone.  We will be 
fighting for our very existence, and for Truth.

Michael Luciano



Read:(1-50,^8),? :