
 --------------------------------------------------------------------

 Note:  The following is a 3 page excerpt from the paper entitled,
        "UFOs, MJ-12 AND THE GOVERNMENT", which is co-authored by
        researchers Grant Cameron and T. Scott Crain Jr.  This brief
        excerpt gives additional background information on Dr. Eric
        Walker's professional activities during the last 60 yrs, along
	with a short example of one of Dr. Walkers' initial responses
        to correspondence from UFO researcher, William Steinman.

                                           - Tom Mickus <<UFONET I>>

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------


	Enter Dr. Eric A. Walker.  Dr. Walker's name was deliberately
 kept secret by a small group of investigators, the authors of this
 paper included, in hopes that Dr. Walker would discuss his past
 association with MJ-12, the research and development hierarchy they
 directed, and the set of Top Secret meetings held at Wright Patterson
 Air Force Base dealing with a recovered flying saucer.

	Researcher Stanton Friedman in speaking of Dr. Walker stated
 "he has all the credentials" and Dr. Walker's credentials are indeed
 impressive.  Born in England in 1910, he received his B.S. degree in
 Engineering in 1932, his M.B.A. degree in 1933 and D.Sc. degree in
 1935, all from Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

	Dr. Walker taught mathematics and electrical engineering, and
 for two years was chairman of the department of electrical engineering
 at Tufts College.  He then joined the University of Conneticut where
 he taught electrical engineering and established courses for a special
 war training program.

	Once the U.S.A. had entered WWII, Dr. Walker joined the Under-
 water Sound Laboratory at Harvard University.  He was promoted to
 assistant director, and then associate director, where he was in
 charge of ordnance weapons.  Dr. Walker had studied the industrial
 use of acoustics.  These studies were applied to the homing torpedo,
 which was successfully used against the German submarines.  For his
 work Dr. Walker was awarded the Naval Ordnance Development Award, and
 also a Presidential Certificate of Merit.

	In 1944 Dr. Walker was a civilian with the Office of Scientific
 Research and Development.  In 1945 Dr. Walker was persuaded by the
 Dean of Engineering at Penn State University to accept at Penn State,
 the position of head of the department of electrical engineering.  In
 addition, the ordnance section of the Harvard Underwater Sound
 Laboratory was transferred to Penn State, and became the Ordnance
 Research Laboratory with Dr. Walker as director.

	This move involved moving most of the staff (200) and their
 families, building a laboratory building and family housing.

	In 1951 Dr. Walker became Dean of Engineering and Architecture
 where he directed the construction of a research reactor on the
 campus.  In 1956 Dr. Milton Eisenhower, then the President of Penn
 State, named Dr. Walker as Vice-President.  Part of Dr. Walker's job
 would be to coordinate and stimulate research on the Penn State campus.

	Dr. Walker's term as Vice-President would actually be minus
 two days as he became President before Vice-President because of
 the resignation of Dr. Eisenhower who moved to John Hopkins University.

	In addition to his earned degrees, Dr. Walker has honorary
 degrees from Temple, Lehigh, Hofstra, Lafayette College, University
 of Pennsylvannia, University of Rhode Island, Elizabethtown College,
 Jefferson Medical College, Wayne State University, Thiel College,
 University of Notre Dame, and the University of Pittsburgh.

	Dr. Eric Walker wrote two prize papers for the AIEE, and
 was inventor of the coliolithophone which is a device for the
 acoustical detection of gallstones.

	Dr. Walker's awards include the Navy Distinguished Public
 Service Awared; American Legion Distinguished Service Award; Fellow,
 Institute of Radio Engineers;  Benjamin Franklin Fellow; Fellow,
 American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Fellow, Royal Society
 of Arts (London); Fellow, American Physical Society; Fellow, American
 Acoustical Society; Horatio Alger Award; Tasker H. Bliss Award of the
 American Society of Military Engineers, Golden Omega Award of the
 Electrical Insulation Industry; Lamme Award and honorary member from
 the American Society for Electrical Education; the White House
 Citation from President Nixon; and Department of Defense Distinguished
 Public Service Medal.

	Dr. Walker's professional activities include: member of the
 Army's Scientific Advisory Panel, member and chairman of the Naval
 Research Advisory Committee, Vice-Chairman of the President's
 Committee for Scientists and Engineers, member and former Chairman
 of the National Research Council's Committee on Undersea Warfare,
 Executive Secretary of the former Research and Development Board,
 Chairman of the National Science Foundation's Committee for
 Engineering; Chairman, Engineering College Research Council;
 President, Engineers Joint Council; appointed in 1957 by President
 Dwight Eisenhower as General Chairman of the Conference on Technical
 and Distribution Research for the Benefit of Small Business; member
 of the board of visitors, Naval Academy; member of the board of
 visitors, U.S. Military Academy; trustee for the Institute for
 Defense Analysis starting in 1958; elected to the chairman of the
 board at IDA in 1981, retiring in 1986 to become Chairman Emeritus;
 President Pennsylvania Association of Colleges and Universities;
 member, Advisory Committee on Higher Education; member, Commission
 on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges
 and Schools: Vice-President and President of the American Society
 for Engineering Education, Chairman National Science Board of The
 National Science Foundation.

	Dr. Walker was one of the founding members of the National
 Academy of Engineering.  He served as Vice-President and President.
 He was a member of the Board of the Engineering Foundation; member
 of the board of trustees, Science Service; President, Commonwealth
 Industrial Research Corp; Board of Directors, Mid-State Bank and
 Trust Company; Board of Directors, Girard Trust Company; Board of
 Directors, Westinghouse Air Brake Co.; Chairman, Board of Directors,
 Melpar, Inc.; consultant on research and engineering to Koppers Corp.,
 Borg-Warner, Bendix Aviation, Hughes Aircraft, IBM, and others.

	Dr. Walker initiated the Conference on The Administration of
 Research in 1947.  He has published numerous articles in various
 periodicals and co-authored a book entitled "The Physical Bases of
 Electrical Engineering".  Dr. Walker wrote a column for "The Center
 Daily Times" in the early 70's.  Dr. Walker directed a nation wide
 study for the ASEE on the "Goals of Engineering Education."

	Dr. Walker's first reference to UFOs came in a speech he
 made in 1969 at the Franklin Lectures (Approaching the Benign
 Enviroment, Eric A. Walker, Franklin Lectures in the Science and
 Humanities, First series, @1970 lectures April 1969 at Auburn U.)


		"We will soon spend millions to probe the
                atmosphere of Venus and Mars, while here
                on earth it remains polluted with dust and
                heat with which we cannot cope.  Indeed it
                may be a good thing that ships from another
                planet are not sampling our atmosphere - the
                conclusion might be that life cannot possibly
                exist on earth."


	Researcher William Steinman was not given Walker's phone
 number by researcher Stanton Friedman, so his first attempt to
 contact Dr. Walker came in the form of a letter, dated March 19,
 1984.  He got a response, but not what he expected.  Steinman
 explained how Dr. Walker responded in a letter to Grant Cameron,
 dated September 8, 1987.

 Steinman writes:

		"The answer to my correspondence was very strange;
		it stated "STOP! DON'T TRY TO FIND ME I CAME ON
  		THAT MACHINE I WILL LEAVE MAY 15 ERGOT QUIET QUIET
                QUIET."  The above was typed on the lower portion
                of my letter that I sent to Walker, as evidence by
                my signature and "very sincerely yours."  My return
                address was cut from the upper portion of my own
                letter to Dr. Walker and was taped to the front of
                his stamped envelope to me!"


 ------------------------------------------------------------------
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
