SAVAGE ISLAND PART 1
--------------------

This is game number 10 in the Scott Adams series and is a higher degree of
difficulty than those that have gone before. Save the game frequently. The
mystery that unfolds is quite intriguing but all is not revealed until Savage
Island Part 2.

You start on the beach of an idyllic island. After taking a look around, check
out the stone head and then do some digging in the sand with your hands. In
the resultant hole, you'll find a bottle of rum. The rum is not for you:
you'll need it later in the game but the bottle will serve a dual purpose.

Armed with the rum, head south. Climb the volcano on the plain and go into the
large crater inside. There is no climbing out the way you got in. Here you'll
find a lake and a cave and somewhere about, an unhealthy looking bear. The
poor beast has been trapped in the crater for years and is deficient in a
certain mineral that only you can supply. In the process of obtaining this
you'll be eaten so be careful. Save the game frequently from now on and avoid
the bear until you can supply his needs another way.

Go into the cave and empty the bottle of rum into the stone basin you will
find there. Keep hold of the bottle. There are other exits which you can
explore if you like, although you'll need a light source (obtained later) for
one.

Exit the cave and drop the bottle and the watch. The watch records your moves
but it's not much good for anything else. You can't carry anything across the
lake without assistance. Now go for a swim in the lake. Swim west (not an
obvious exit) and you'll come to a sheltered ledge. If the hurricane hasn't
started by now type "wait", and it will. SAVE THE GAME FIRST! Note that during
the hurricane you CAN NOT save the game normally, but you can by saying a
magic word "YOHO" (SAY YOHO)...

Move through the crevice onto the sand ledge. Then "jump" to get down to the
beach. Yes, it IS dangerous to move in a hurricane but as far as I know you
don't have a choice. At some stage you will hear a crash, which is a palm tree
falling over. Go along the beach to where the palms are and get a log. Gee,
this would come in handy for ferrying goods across the lake. Take a log and
make your way back to the volcano. By the way, the hurricane would not cause
a problem while you carry around a log. Once in volcano, pick up the bottle,
go into the lake and head west. Drop the bottle on the sheltered ledge and go
back to the lake.

In the middle of the lake, let the log go and hold your breath. Then swim down
and go north. Get the knife. Swim east. Get the small plastic block and swim
up. Get the log, swim west and deposit this with the rest of the goods.

OK, now time to get the bear what he wants so he won't bother you. Go through
the crevice and jump down to the beach. Move along it and then down to water's
edge. Get some seawater, then take it back to the volcano. Enter the cave and
then go through the crevice to the hot rocky ledge. Hopefully the wind won't
blow you away. Empty the bottle and soon you'll see a pile of salt as all the
seawater evaporates. Take the salt and drop it in front of the bear. The bear
will gobble it up and leave you alone.

Go to the cave, (if you're not already in it) and take the rum from the basin
where you left it. Drop it by the lake shore and swim across to get the log.
Swim back, get the rum and then swim to the secluded ledge. Drop the bottle
here.

The next task is to get the log out of the volcano because you're going to
need it. There is no way it will fit though the crevice so still holding it,
swim back across the lake (you're a strong swimmer by this stage) to the other
side. Climb up the volcano slope. You won't get to the other side but the log
will. Swim back to the secluded ledge.

By this time it should be getting dark. What better place to sleep than
exactly where you are, a secluded ledge. Type SLEEP for a rest.

Morning, and still there is a lot to be done. Today, you're going to travel.
Something's out to sea. You may have heard a cannon offshore and seen the
island from the top of the stone head. Collect your items (knife, block and
bottle of rum) and go through the crevice and jump down to the beach. Do you
remember hearing TWO crashes during the storm. Go along to where the palm
trees were and collect the other log that's fallen. Drag this down to the
water's edge. Leave it there, and head back to the volcano. Surprise,
surprise, here's your other log lying on the slopes. Pick this up and head
back to the beach. Cut some vines from the jungle and take everything down to
the water where you've left the other log. Everything you need to make a raft
is now here.

One move later and you're ready to set sail. SAVE THE GAME AT THIS STAGE. Get
onboard the raft and sail in any direction. There are two locations to be
found. The first is a atoll, the second is a beach. There doesn't seem to be
any way to get to these locations in an ordered way, at least no way I've
discovered. Simply sail this way and that until you hit them. You should visit
the atoll before the beach. Hopefully, you will get to them before your raft
disintegrates. If the latter starts to occur you can always get off at the
tidepool, cut the vines, get some more vines and make the raft up again. You
may also run out of daylight. If night is coming on, you must abandon the
quest, make you're way back to the tidepool and from there to the volcano to
sleep on the secluded ledge. Don't forget to leave all objects with the raft
or you'll lose them in the lake.

When you set foot on the atoll, there may or not be a surly pirate waiting for
you. If not, wait for him. Once he arrives, give him the bottle of rum. He'll
leave you an important note and a bandanna. Read the note and take the
bandanna with you.

Now to the beach. Get off the raft and go into the cave. Note the drawings.
Weird aren't they, and this gives you a taste of the sort of thing the
adventure will start to turn into.

There is a dark crevice but you can't go up there. Hit the stalactite with a
coconut. Egad!, a crevice opens in the rock. Leave the coconuts here, you
won't need them again. Go into the crevice and you're in a metal-lined tunnel
with exits in all directions. Things are certainly becoming strange!

Explore the rooms east and west. Then go back to the tunnel, go north, then
west. Examine the control console and go into the force field. Nothing's there
so go out again. Notice anything different?  What about the plastic block you
found. It's now glowing!  What use is a glowing block?  Well, it's a light
source for a start. Go east and then east again. Now go south into the
darkness. Ah, ha... alien machinery!

An examination of the machinery will reveal a wire missing. Where could this
be?  Well, remember the dark opening right back in the cave in the volcano...
the place you couldn't explore because you had no light source? You guessed
it...!

Go back to the raft and sail to the tidepool. Cut the vines and take one of
the palm logs. You'll need this to cross the lake, remember. Trudge back to
the volcano and go into the dark opening in the cave.

This is a maze, so don't get lost. Go south and then north. Phew, bat
droppings! Dig in the bat droppings to find what you're looking for. Take the
wire, go out the opening, exit the cave and swim the lake to the sheltered
ledge. Drop everything but the log and swim back. Haul the log up the volcano
as before, swim back, collect everything and go through the crevice back to
the beach. Collect the palm log, get some new vines, rebuild the raft and
re-find the beach. Now for the final phase.

You'll need to re-charge you're light source so make your way to the force
field, and go in then out. The go to the alien machinery and fix it with the
wire you collected from the cave. Go to the place where the caveman resides in
the sealed display case. Press the button. This time it works!  Don't try this
with the T-Rex in the other display case otherwise its Jurassic park all over
again!

Return to the control console. The Neanderthal will follow and when you get
there, he will push the button. Say the password (remember what was on the
note the pirate gave you). Then go into the place the Neanderthal is pointing
at.

Hey presto, a password is delivered and you've reached the end of the game,
with many questions still unanswered. The answers to these and other
mysteries, can be found in Savage Island Part 2.

Good luck!

Solution by Terry Stewart
