                                                           










                               CATCALL V3.4


                        copyright (c) -  1989, 1990
                             Zone Communications

                                written by


                               The Marauder
                              Legion of Doom!






             Special Thanks to Safe Cracker, and Phucked Agent 04
                          Lex Luthor, and Frank Carson






































                             Copyright Notice


         Permission to copy and distribute this document and the
    Accompanying Program CATCALL V3.4 is hereby given, Provided that
    This document and all references to the author (The Marauder,
    Legion of Doom!, Zone Communications)  are included in any copy or
    subsequent duplication of this document and the accompanying code.
    Under no circumstances will this program be distributed or offered
    for profit by any individual or corporation, However compensation
    for storage media and postage expenses normally incurred during
    mail order freeware distribution is at the discretion of the
    person(s) offering the service, however the person(s) subscribing
    to this type of service should be made fully aware that this
    program (CATCALL V3.4) is offered to the public free of charge.
    Modification of the accompanying program (CATCALL V3.4) in any
    form is expressly forbidden by any person(s) without written
    permission from The Author (The Marauder), The Legion of Doom!,
    and Zone Communications.
















































                                Disclaimer



         This program is released to the public as is and all routines
    and code within the the program are the property of the author and
    The Legion of Doom!.  The use of this program is at the discretion
    of the user(s). The author and the Legion of Doom!, assume no
    legal responsibility for the programs usage and the user is
    CAUTIONED that the use of the accompanying program may not be
    legal.  The program is released simply as a show of what can
    easily be done utilizing various string, Window and communications
    routines.  The program should be viewed as a tree from which the
    owner may grow on.  This document and the accompanying program may
    be freely copied and distributed as long as the authors name and
    associated copyright notice, disclaimers, group affiliations and
    this document are included in any duplication or subsequent
    distribution. The Author (The Marauder), Zone Communications, and
    The Legion of Doom!, disclaim all warranties, Expressed or implied
    Including without limitation, the warranties of merchantability
    and warranties of fitness for any purpose.












































    System Requirements:

         o  IBM PC/XT/AT or any 100% compatible      (see note 1)
         o  At least 64k Ram.
         o  Any Hayes compatible Modem               (see note 2)


    Program:

         If you have ever been the innocent victim of a prank,
    practical joke, received the "Short end of the stick"  or simply
    felt someone needed their "Just Deserts" - CATCALL is for you, The
    underdog.  Now from the comfort of your own home you can extract
    your vengeance. Simply a few clicks at the old keyboard transforms
    your PC in to a state of the art "Punishment Processor" which can
    deal out a sentence from mildly annoying to downright galling.
    CATCALL allows the user to Harass up to 15 Persons simultaneously
    each with their own personal harassment factor.


    ** As above the user is cautioned that use of this program may not
       be legal and should proceed with its usage at his or her own
       risk. With the advent of digital CCIS and fully featured ESS
       telephone switching systems (ie. Instant callback and the
       dreaded.... "Caller ID").  The predator may quickly find
       himself the prey.



    CONTENTS:

         The distribution zipfile should include the following files:


                CATCALL.EXE   -   The catcall program.
                CATCALL.DOC   -   This Document.


    USAGE:

         Use of CATCALL is simple, it is 80% menu driven, requiring a
    minimum of user input.  simply copy the files CATCALL.EXE and
    CATCALL.DOC to either a floppy or hard drive (Use of a dedicated
    directory is not necessary) and type CATCALL. at the > prompt
    the program should take a few seconds to load. If you are using
    the program for the first time CATCALL will create its own
    configuration file named "CATCALL.CFG". This file can be modified
    from the CATCALL program itself or any ASCII text editor).
    Creation of the Config file should take approximately 3-4 seconds.
    the default configuration is as follows:

         Comm Port            COM1:
         Sound Effects        ON
         Background ASCII     206
         Dial String          ATDT
         Dial Prefix          (none)
         Modem Init String     ATZ

    the parameters are stored in the configuration file in ASCII
    in the following format:
                               COM1:,ON,206,ATDT,,ATZ







    If you experience any problems executing the program it is
    strongly suggested that you simply delete the configuration
    file ("CATCALL.CFG"), and run the program allowing CATCALL to
    create a fresh configuration file, there are no limitations as to
    the number of times this may be done.

    After creation of the configuration file CATCALL will proceed onto
    the Title page, Striking any key will bring you to the CATCALL
    main menu. your options at this point are as follows:

         BEGIN Harassment
         SELECT Those to harass
         CONFIGURE Cat Caller
         SOUND effects
         CLEAR current List
         LOAD Old harassee list
         SAVE Current list
         QUIT harassment



    OPTION DESCRIPTIONS:


                       BEGIN Harassment (MAIN MENU)

              Use this option after you have utilized either options
         SELECT, or LOAD.  This is the "Meat" of the program and does
         the actual harassment. While in harassment mode you may hit
         the <ESCAPE> key to pause the harassment at this point you
         will be placed into the harassment sub-menu: your options at
         this menu are:

                     Quit   -   Quit Harassment to Main Menu
                     Resume -   Resume Harassing the current list
                     Remove -   Remove a harassee from the list
                     Listen -   Turn Modem Speaker ON during harass
                     Hush   -   Turn Modem speaker OFF During harass
                     Modem  -   Allows you to send Any ASCII string
                                Directly to the modem.
                     View   -   Allows the user to view an expanded
                                Harassee parameter listing

         All of the above options are self explanatory from the
         program and hitting the <ESCAPE> key will generally terminate
         any selection and return the user to the previous menu or
         mode.



                   SELECT those to Harass:  (MAIN MENU)

              Selection of this option at the main menu will place the
         user into the SELECT mode, at this point the user may select
         up to 15 persons to be harassed simultaneously. the input
         parameters are as follows:








    Description ...........  Any Alphanumeric character(s) and will be
                             the later reference to the person/Number
                             to be harassed


    Telephone Number........ The telephone Number of the party to be
                             harassed in the format #-###-###-####
                             o Note that the hyphens ("-") may or may
                             not be included at this point. the 1-XXX
                             may also be excluded and simple 7 digit
                             telephone numbers are acceptable for
                             example:
                                       1-800-111-2222
                                         800-111-2222
                                             111-2222
                                          18001112222

                             all the above numbers would be
                             acceptable and would be dialed literally
                             as they appear.



    Harassment Factor....... This may be an integer from 1 to 4, this
                             is the number of times the program will
                             call the above telephone number when it
                             arrives at the selected time and will
                             repeat this sequence from the selected
                             time thereafter.



    Hangup Delay............ This may be an integer from 1 to 99 and
                             is simply the number of seconds to remain
                             on the line before hanging up and
                             proceeding with the next call. (I
                             recommend at least using 20 seconds for
                             good effect.)


    Time to start Harass...  This MUST be entered in the format hh:mm
                             in 24 hour format and is the time you
                             wish the harassment to begin for the
                             selected party.. hitting <RETURN> will
                             simply cause the harassment to begin
                             immediately after selecting the "BEGIN
                             Harass" Option from the main menu (See
                             above)


    Pause between calls.... This may be any integer between 1 and 99
                            and it represents the number of minutes to
                            pause before dialing the selected number
                            after the Time to harass has begun.












    Select Example:


    Description...........  John J. Doe
    Telephone Number......  111-2222
    Harassment Factor.....  3
    Hangup Delay..........  35
    Time to Start Harass..  12:00
    Pause Between Calls...  15


    Choosing the above would cause CATCALL to proceed as follows :

    Begin harassing  Mr. John J. Doe  at 12:00   (12 noon)
    starting at 12:00 CATCALL would place 3 (harassment factor)
    calls in a row to 111-2222, Hanging on the line for 35 seconds
    per call (weather the phone is answered or not). after completing
    the three calls CATCALL would then wait 15 Minutes (Pause between
    calls) and would then call Mr. Doe again Three times in a row .
    (ie 12:15, 12:30, 12:45, etc..)  each of the fifteen allowable
    harasses may have their own start times, delays, pauses and
    harassment factors. This offers the User with a flexible
    harassment schedule.




                      CONFIGURE Catcall:  (MAIN MENU)

         Selection of this option from the main menu allows the user
    to either temporarily or permanently change the programs default
    parameters the options at this menu are:

    Comm Port      -    This is simply the Comm port that your
                        modem is logically located at valid examples
                        are:  COM1:, COM2:,  etc... note that the
                        colon is required..

    Sound Effects   -   May Be either "ON", or "OFF".  Entering any
                        other alphanumeric data at this point will
                        simply cause CATCALL to default to ON.

    Background ASCII -  This is simply the ASCII code for the
                        character used for the MAIN MENU background,
                        the default is  177, (Note any character
                        supplied will appear in inverse video)

    DIAL String      -  This is the "AT" command that instructs
                        your modem to dial, the default dial
                        string is "ATDT" (tone dialing), You can
                        change this to "ATDP" if you are living in
                        one of the few areas served by rotary/Pulse
                        telephone service..

    Dial Prefix       - The Default for this parameter is nothing
                        This is simply a place for the user to
                        supply characters prior to all selected
                        (Via MAIN MENU Select option - see above)
                         Harassee telephone numbers, for example:








                         Harassee telephone #  -  202-2222
                         DIAL String          -   ATDT
                         DIAL Prefix          -   9

                         would cause CATCALL to send the following
                         string to the modem at dial time:

                         ATDT 9202-2222
                              ^
                              dial prefix inserted here

                         This option may be useful if you are
                         running the program via a PBX where
                         9 may be required for an outside line.



    Modem Init String  - This Parameter specifies the "AT" command
                         that will be sent to the modem during
                         Initialization time the default for this
                         is "ATZ"


    Pressing return at any selection point while in the configuration
    Sub-system will cause the current value of the parameter to be
    kept.  Hitting the <ESCAPE> key will allow the user to abort the
    configuration process and All Default values will remain
    unchanged. After completion of the desired changes, the user will
    be asked if he wishes to make the changes permanent, Selecting YES
    will cause CATCALL to update the configuration file (CATCALL.CFG -
    see above) and make the changes permanent - Selecting NO will
    cause CATCALL to temporarily use the new parameters, they will
    remain in effect until the program is terminated, and the
    parameters in the configuration file will be loaded the next time
    the program is run.





                       SOUND Effects:    (MAIN MENU)


         Selection of this option from the main Menu, simply
    toggles the programs sound effects on or off. The toggle will
    remain in effect until the program is terminated. Sound effects
    can be set permanently ON/OFF by default in the configuration
    option (See above)



                   CLEAR Current list :     (MAIN MENU)


         Selection of this option allows the user to clear CATCALL
    of the list of harasses currently in use. The user will be
    asked for verification before the clearing is actually done, and
    it is strongly suggested that the user SAVE the list via the
    SAVE Current list option. (see Below). Before proceeding with the
    CLEAR option.






                  LOAD Old Harassee List:    (MAIN MENU)


         Selection of this option from the main menu will allow
    the user to load a previously saved harassment list into memory
    after successful loading the user may go directly to the
    BEGIN Harassment mode (See above). Note that the user need not
    supply any extension, as CATCALL automatically supplies the
    extension ".HRS" to all saved harassment files. (see SAVE)
    hitting <ESCAPE> will abort the load option and return the
    user to the main menu.



                   SAVE Current List:        (MAIN MENU)

         This option allows the user to save the harassee list
    currently residing in the CATCALL memory, selection of this
    option simply prompts the user for the "Save Filename" and it
    may be composed of up to 6 ALPHABETIC characters.  The user
    should not supply any extension as CATCALL will append the
    extension ".HRS" automatically to all saved files. Hitting
    the <ESCAPE> key will abort this option and return the user
    to the main menu, Leaving the current harassee list in memory.

    NOTE: Entering any NON-ALPHABETIC character in the filename
    may cause the program to behave erratically, so proceed here at
    your own risk, I have not trapped out special characters to allow
    the knowledgeable user more flexibility, but I have given the
    program only limited testing above the characters A-Z in the
    filename.



                    QUIT Harassment:        (MAIN MENU)


         Selection of this option will terminate CATCALL, and return
    the user to DOS, All harasses currently residing in memory will be
    LOST, so it is suggested that the user utilize the SAVE option
    (see above) before proceeding. This is the proper way to exit from
    the CATCALL program. However if the user manually breaks out of
    the program at any point there is no hazard to ones system.






















         Any questions, Comments, Suggestions for improvement or
    scoldings may be directed to me via the internet I'll run across
    it sooner or later in my wanderings...

    Have Fun - And dial with care....


                The
                  Marauder
              Legion of Doom!



    Note 1  -  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business
               Machines corporation.

    Note 2  -  HAYES is a registered trademark of the Hayes
               corporation

      (Neither of which had anything to do with this project)


