

 
 
 
 
           ллллл   ллл    лллллл         лл   лл ллллллл ллллл
          лл   л  лл лл   л лл л         ллл ллл  лл   л  лл ллл
         лл      лл   лл    лл           ллллллл  лл      лл  лл
         лл      лл   лл    лл    лллл   лл л лл  лллл    лл  лл
         лл      ллллллл    лл           лл   лл  лл      лл  лл
          лл   л лл   лл    лл           лл   лл  лл   л  лл ллл
           ллллл лл   лл   лллл          лл   лл ллллллл ллллл
 
 
 
                                  v2.00
 
 
                  Database of Feline Symptoms and Ailments
 
                         Copyright 1992, Jim Lynch
 
 
 
 
 



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 1
 
 
 
 
 INDEX       Purpose................... 2
             Quick start............... 2
             Help...................... 2
             Main Menu................. 2
             Symptoms.................. 3
             Ailments.................. 5
             Commands.................. 6
             Color Setup............... 7
             Sound Effects............. 7
             Exploding Windows......... 7
             Network................... 7
             Files Supplied............ 7
             Support................... 8
             Register.................. 5
             Other Products............ 9
             Disclaimer................ 9
 

 



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 2
 
 
 
 
 PURPOSE     CAT-MED is a database of common feline symptoms and
             ailments. It allows you to quickly determine what a
             set of symptoms might mean, and also to see what
             symptoms may be associated with a given ailment.
  
  
  
 QUICK       To install on a floppy or hard drive, simply copy all
 START       the distribution files to a directory of your choice.
  
             If you are upgrading from a previous version, you
             should install the new version into a new directory
             or disk and then delete all the files from the old
             version. Several files from the old version are no
             longer used. You'll have to setup you colors again
             if you don't like the factory defaults.
 
             Start the program by typing CATMED at the DOS prompt.
  
             If you want to force the screens to displayed in
             Monochrome, start the program by typing CATMED /M
             instead. This should not be necessary on monochrome
             systems, since CAT-MED will detect what type of
             video card you have and display it's screens
             accordingly.
  
  
 
 HELP        Context sensitive help is available at all times.
             Press the F1 key to get help.
  
  
  
 MAIN MENU   There are five Main Menu functions. They are:
  
                 Symptoms - This function displays a list of
                            Symptoms. You can select a Symptom,
                            or a group of Symptoms, and then see
                            a list of associated Ailments.
  
                 Ailments - This function displays a list of
                            Ailments. You can select an Ailment,
                            and then see a list of associated
                            Symptoms.
  
             CatMed SetUp - This function allows you to alter the
                            colors, and turn sound effects and
                            exploding windows On or Off.
  
             Program Info - Tells how to contact the program
  
                     Exit - Returns you to the operating system.



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 3

 
 
 
 SYMPTOMS    This function lets you select a symptom or a group
             of symptoms and view a list ailments associated with
             your selection(s).
 
                Symptoms List
                -------------
                This list is in alphabetic order.
 
                PRESS SPACEBAR to Tag/UnTag the symptoms you want
                to include.
 
                PRESS "U" to UnTag all the symptoms. This lets
                you start with a clean slate.
 
                PRESS ENTER when you have tagged all the symptoms
                you wish to investigate. If no symptoms are
                tagged, the single hi-lited symptom is selected.
 
                PRESS ESC to quit.
 
 
                Selected Symptoms List
                ----------------------
                After you have selected symptoms and pressed
                enter, you are shown this review list of the
                symptoms you selected.
 
                PRESS ENTER accept this list of symptoms.
 
                PRESS ESC to quit.
 

                Ailments for Selected Symptom(s)
                --------------------------------
                After you have accepted the review list of
                symptoms, you are shown this alphabetic list
                ailments that are associated with the combination
                of symptoms you selected.
 
                From this list of ailments, you can then choose
                one and view the symptoms that are associated
                with that ailment.
 
                PRESS ANY LETTER key to move to the next ailment
                matching that letter.
 
                PRESS ENTER to view the symptoms associated with
                the hi-lited ailment.
 
                PRESS ESC to quit.



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 4
 



                Symptoms for Selected Ailment
                -----------------------------
                This list is in probable occurance order, either
                1, 2 or 3.
 
                PRESS 1, 2 or 3 to move to the next symptom with
                that probability of occurance.
 
                PRESS ESC or ENTER to quit.
 
 
             Also please see the section "COMMANDS" for other
             commands that are always available while viewing a
             list of symptoms or ailments.
 



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 5

 
 
 
 AILMENTS    This function lets you select an ailment and view a
             list of symptoms associated with that ailment.
  
 
                Ailments List
                -------------
                This list is in alphabetic order.
  
                PRESS ANY LETTER key to move to the next ailment
                matching that letter.
 
                PRESS ENTER to view the symptoms associated with
                the hi-lited ailment.
 
                PRESS ESC to quit.
 
 
                Symptoms for Selected Ailment
                -----------------------------
                This list is in probable occurance order, either
                1, 2 or 3.
 
                PRESS 1, 2 or 3 to move to the next symptom with
                that probability of occurance.
 
                PRESS ESC or ENTER to quit.
 
 
             Also please see the section "COMMANDS" for other
             commands that are always available while viewing a
             list of symptoms or ailments.
 



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 6
 
 
  
 
 COMMANDS    These commands are always available while viewing a
             list of symptoms or ailments.
  
             PRESS the ARROW KEYS, PGUP and PGDN keys to move up
             and down the list.
  
             PRESS CTRL-PGUP to move to the top of the list
             (hold down the CTRL key and press PGUP).
  
             PRESS CTRL-PGDN to move to the end of the list
             (hold down the CTRL key and press PGDN).
  
             PRESS ENTER to move to the next screen.
 
             PRESS ESC to return to the previous screen.
 
             PRESS F1 for Help.
 



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 7

 
 
 
 COLOR       You can change the screen colors used by CAT-MED.
 SETUP       This function is reached by selecting CATMED SETUP
             from the Main Menu.
  
             After you select COLOR SETUP, you must choose an
             area to change by moving the hi-lite over the
             desired choice and pressing ENTER. You can also
             choose the factory DEFAULT COLORS or MONOCHROME from
             the menu.
  
             After you select an area, a color sample will appear
             on the screen.
  
             Press the LEFT/RIGHT ARROW KEYS to change the
             foreground color.
  
             Press the UP/DOWN ARROW KEYS to change the
             background color.
  
             When you are finished making changes, select SAVE
             CHANGES from the menu to put your changes into
             effect, or ABANDON CHANGES to abort.
  
  
  
 SOUND       You can turn ON or OFF the various beeps and boops
 EFFECTS     that sound at various times. This function is
             reached by selecting CATMED SETUP from the main
             menu.
  
  
  
 EXPLODING   You can turn ON or OFF the exploding window effect.
 WINDOWS     This function is reached by selecting CATMED SETUP
             from the main menu.
  
  
  
 NETWORK     CAT-MED is network aware, and can be used on a
             network without problems.
  
  
  
 FILES       The following files are supplied with CAT-MED. If
 SUPPLIED    any of these files are missing please contact the
             program author.
 
                catmed.bin      config.dbf      advert.doc
                catmed.cga      helptext.dbf    catmed.doc
                catmed.exe      helptext.dbt    order.doc
                                helptext.ntx    summary.doc
                                                update.doc



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 8
 
 


 SUPPORT     I can be reached by U.S. mail:
  
                  Jim Lynch
                  P.O. Box 140192
                  Staten Island, NY 10314
                  USA
 
             By Modem:
  
                  Compuserv            71210,2354
 
                  FidoNet              1:278/627, NMH only.
                                       conferences: Clipper, Dbase,
                                         Shareware
 
                  RelayNet (RIME)      conferences: Clipper, Dbase,
                                         Shareware
 
                  InterLink (ILink)    conferences: Clipper, Dbase,
                                         Shareware
 
                  Pet-Net              conferences: Cats
 
 
 
 REGISTER    CAT-MED is a Shareware program.
  
             You are free to copy and distribute CAT-MED for
             NONCOMMERCIAL use provided it is not modified in any
             way, and this document accompanies the program.
             Clubs, user groups and disk distributors may charge a
             nominal fee for expenses and handling.
  
             Shareware isn't free; it is a distribution method
             that gives you a chance to try software before buying
             it. If you try a Shareware program and continue using
             it, you are expected to register.
 
             The registration fee for CAT-MED is $15.00 per copy,
             which entitles you to lifetime technical support,
             upgrade notices, and one free upgrade to the next
             release. Registered copies also have the advertising
             screen removed.
 
             You can register by mail or phone. To register,
             please see the separate ORDER.DOC file.
 



CATMED.DOC                                                      Page 9
 
 
 
 
 OTHER       Other programs available from the author:
 PRODUCTS
                XREF - a documentation tool for Dbase and Clipper
                       databases that allows you view and print
                       database structures, index expressions,
                       and cross references between them. You can
                       add and edit descriptions for each
                       database field to provide more extensive
                       documentation.
 
             HDBCALC - a programmer's Hex/Decimal/Binary
                       calculator.
 
             To order an evaluation copy of these programs,
             please refer to the seperate ADVERT.DOC file.
 
 
 
 DISCLAIMER  The author makes no warranties, expressed or
             implied, including, but not limited to,
             merchantability or fitness for any particular
             purpose.  In no event shall the author be liable for
             indirect or consequential damages arising from the
             use of the CAT-MED.

