			 CDLABEL for Windows

			     by Gene Toye
			       07/25/93


Introduction

CDLABEL for Windows is a Windows 3.1 application designed to print labels
for CD jewel boxes.  Two labels are printed, a 15 cm by 11.7 cm label for
the back of the jewel box and a 12 cm by 12 cm label for the cover insert. 

System Requriements
    Windows 3.1
    Printer with corresponding Windows driver (support for graphics and
                                               True Type required)
    VBRUN200.DLL (not included to reduce size of ZIP archive, commonly
                  available)

How to Use CDLABEL

CDLABEL prints to the default printer configured within Windows.  As
CDLABEL uses the printer font metrics to display an accurate preview of the
label, the printer must be configured when CDLABEL is executed.

The CDLABEL window consists of five buttons across the top with a preview of
the current label below.  The five buttons are:
    Edit Label               - displays dialog for editing text within label.
    Print Label              - prints label.
    Half Scale or Full Scale - Toggle between full scale preview and half.
                               scale preview.  CDLABEL defaults to a half.
                               scale preview on displays less than 600 pixels
                               in height.
    About                    - Display CDLABEL about dialog.
    Exit                     - Exit CDLABEL.

The Edit Label dialog has the following items:

    Clear All Fields button  - clears all text from the text input fields.
    Spine Font button        - displays Font dialog for selection of spine
                               text font.  Default font is Arial 14 point.
    Spine Text field         - single line text input field for back label
                               spine text.
    Copy Spine Text button   - copies text from Spine Text field into Title
                               Text field.
    Title Font button        - displays Font dialog for selection of title
                               text font.  Default font is Arial 36 point.
    Title Text field         - single line text input field for title text.
    Body Font button         - displays Font dialog for selection of title
                               text font.  Default font is Arial 14 point.
    Title Text field         - multiple line text input field for title text.


To create a label, press the Edit Label button.  Enter the desired text and
font combinations, then press Ok.  The label will be previewed.  Note that 
lines too long are truncated when printed, including the body.  If such lines
are noted, either insert a carriage return (if body text) or reduce the
font size to fit.  As the back label and the front label are formatted the
same, there will be a 1.4 cm right margin on the preview and the back label.
This is due to the smaller size of the front label (12 cm versus 13.4 cm).

When the label is ready, press the Print button.  The upper label is for the
back of the jewel box, behind the cd holder insert.  Fold the two spine
labels up at a right angle to to back of the label.  Remove the insert from
the jewel box and place the label in the cavity.  Replace the cd holder.
Place the lower label from the printout in the lid of the jewel box.

Terms of Use

CDLABEL for Windows is Copyright (C) 1993 by the author, Gene Toye.  It is
Freeware, meaning it may be used without payment to the author.  It is
not public domain and rights to it remain with the author.  It
may be freely uploaded to BBSes.  Commercially distribution is permitted
so long as no fee is charged for the software itself, only for the media
and labor involved in said distribution.


How to Contact the Author


I welcome comments and bug reports.  Since this is Freeware, I make no
guarantees as to its usefulness or freedom from bugs.  I wrote it
primarilly to fulfill a personal need for a CD Label printer. 

    Internet:       gtoye@oc.com
    America Online: GToye (don't expect quick turnaround here)

    Snail Mail: Gene Toye
                1601 San Francisco
                Carrollton, TX 75007
