Program:    COPYDISK.C	C 5.1 and MASM 5.1

Purpose:    Copies volume label, subdirectory structure and all files
	    regardless of attribute type from one disk medium to another.

Author: 	     Gordon Harris
		     3349 Humboldt Ave S
		     Minneapolis, MN 55408

		     Comments can be addressed to my
		     CompuSurve address: [72611,620]



Description: COPYDISK is an XCOPY like utility which allows you to copy
	    an entire disk to a drive of differing type, e.g. copy
	    the contents of a 1.2 m floppy to a 1.44 m floppy, etc.

	    Unlike XCOPY, COPYDISK will copy the volume label from the
	    source disk to the target, as well as copying all
	    subdirectories and files including hidden, system or read-
	    only files and directories.  All files on the target disk
	    created by COPYDISK will have identical attributes (dates,
	    times, etc) as the files on the source disk.  If the
	    source disk is bootable, so will the resulting target disk.

Syntax:     The syntax for using COPYDISK is:

	    COPYDISK sourcedrive: targetdrive: [-n] [-x] [-f]

	    where "sourcedrive:" and "targetdrive:" are valid dos drives
	    and [-n], [-x] and [-f] are optional parameters.

Operation:  Given valid parameters, COPYDISK (1) performs a media check
	    on the indicated drives, (2) prompts the user for permission
	    to delete all existing data from the target drive, (3) copies
	    the volume label from the source drive to the target and then
	    (4) proceeds to copy all files and directories from the source
	    to the target.

	    COPYDISK will abort if its check of the media type of the
	    target disk reveals that it is a fixed disk.  This protects
	    you from inadvertently deleting the contents of a hard disk
	    either by using an incorrect parameter for the target drive
	    or by using a virtual drive name created by ASSIGN or SUBST
	    which represents a fixed disk drive or subdirectory on a
	    hard disk.

	    During the media check, COPYDISK installs its own critical
	    error handler.  If a error is detected reading either the
	    source or target drives, COPYDISK will prompt you to retry
	    access to the disk.  If you choose not to retry access to
	    the target disk, COPYDISK will prompt you as to whether you
	    wish to format the target.

	    COPYDISK will also abort if the data on the source disk is
	    too large to fit on the empty target disk, or if any errors
	    occur reading data from the source or writing data to the
	    target disks.

Optional Parameters:
	 -n (no prompt).  This is useful when using COPYDISK in batch
	    files.  With the "-n" parameter, COPYDISK will not prompt you
	    for permission to delete all data from the target disk.

	 -x (relaxed media checking).  With this parameter, the target
	    disk may be a hard disk and the source data may be larger
	    than the capacity of the target disk.

	 -f (format target automatically if media check failure).  With
	    this parameter, the DOS FORMAT.COM command will be spawned
	    without prompting if the target disk fails the media check.
