













                                    Deceive

                                  Version 1.0
                       Copywrite (c) 1986 by Carl Burtner







                                  What Is It?

          Have you ever been in the middle of a great game (or
          balancing your checkbook, or updating your resume) and had
          your boss appear behind you?  What did you do? Reboot?
          Attempt to block the screen with your body?  Get fired?
          Well now there's a better way!  Deceive allows you to
          instantly pause the program you're using and display the
          screen of your choice.  With the push of a key that
          incriminating arcade game can be transformed into a
          spreadsheet, word processor, or anything you desire.  It's
          fun, it's fast, and best of all, it's cheap!



                            User Supported Software

          This program may be copied as much as you like and
          distributed to whomever you choose so long as the
          distributed copies are not modified and are accompanied by
          the programs documentation.  See page 9 for furthur
          information.


























                       T A B L E   O F   C O N T E N T S




          What Is A Deception  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - 1

          How Does It Work  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 1

          Compatibility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - 1

          One Small Problem and a Bonus . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 2

          System Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 2

          About Residency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 2

          How to Use Multiple Deception Screens  . . . . . . . . - 2

          Basic Key Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 3
              Alt-E  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - 3
              Alt-B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 4
              Alt-C  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - 4
              Deception Key . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 5

          Special Functions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - 5
              F2 - Deception Screen Storage / Retrieval . . . .  - 6
              F3 - Screen Mode Alteration Facility . . . . . . . - 6
              F4 - Time Delay Facility  . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 7

          User Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - 9

          In Case of Trouble  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - 10

































          What Is A Deception?

          A Deception is when the True Screen display has been
          replaced by the Deception Screen.  The Deception Key is the
          key selected by the user to initiate a Deception.  The
          Deception Screen (also called the Bogus Screen in the
          program) is the screen selected by the user to be displayed
          during a Deception.


          How Does It Work?

          Using Deceive Is Simple.

               1. Type Deceive from the DOS prompt and hit the enter
                   key

               2. Select and press the key to be used as the Deception
                   Key

               3. Run any program to display the screen you want
                   displayed during a Deception.

               4. Hit Alt-C to capture the screen.

               5. Run the program you really want to run.

               6. Hit Alt-E to enable the Deception Key.

               7. Hit the Deception Key to display the captured
                   Deception Screen.

               8. During a Deception, either hit the Deception Key
                   immediately to return to your program or hit any
                   other key to make changes to the Deception Screen.
                   Use the arrow keys, enter key, and backspace key to
                   move around the Deception Screen.  During editing
                   of the Deception Screen the Deception Key will
                   revert to its normal function.  Hit the Esc key to
                   end editing of the Deception Screen and return to
                   your program.  F2 through F4 are used during a
                   Deception to access several special functions.
                   These functions will be described later.


          Compatibility

          Deceive is compatible with both the color and mono display
          adapter and will work simply with any program that uses BIOS
          to change display modes and obtain keyboard data.  Programs
          that do direct writes to the screen buffer and take over the
          keyboard are a little trickier, but the special functions



          Deceive                      -1-                 Version 1.0










          available during a deception make Deceive compatible with
          most of these programs too.


          One Small Problem And A Bonus

          There is one sequence of actions that must be avoided.  If
          you install Deceive, hit Alt-E, hit the Deception key, hit
          F2, and load in a Deception Screen from disk, the system
          will hang when you return to DOS.  I have no idea why.  This
          problem only occurs if you want to load a Deception Screen
          from disk immediately after installation.  Most users will
          probably never want to do this.  If you do want to
          immediately load a screen, just hit any other key (the
          backspace is fine) before hitting Alt-E and everything will
          be fine.

          The bonus is, if you use Deceive with a game that doesn't
          allow you to reboot, you can initiate a Deception and reboot
          from there.  No more turning off the power switch!


          System Requirements

          Deceive requires DOS 2.0 or greater and uses about 40K of
          memory.


          About Residency

          Deceive is a resident program.  This means that once
          initialized, Deceive will remain in memory until the
          computer is turned off or rebooted.  The memory used by
          Deceive (about 40,000 bytes) will not be available for use
          by other programs.


          How To Use Multiple Deception Screens

          If you feel like it, or have the need, it is possible to
          have more than one copy of Deceive installed and operative
          in memory at the same time.  Most users will probably have
          no need to use this function and first time users may want
          to skip this section entirely for now.

          To install multiple copies, just follow the first four steps
          of the How Does Work section selecting a different Deception
          Key each time.  If you install multiple copies, each
          installation will decrease the memory available to run other
          programs by about 40K bytes.  If multiple copies are
          installed the Alt-E, Alt-C, and Alt-B keys of the previously
          installed copy will be disabled and the Deception key of the
          previously installed copy will be enabled.  Being able to


          Deceive                      -2-                 Version 1.0










          install multiple copies of Deceive, each with its own
          Deception Key, gives the user multiple Deception screens to
          choose from and allows flipping between Deception screens
          during a Deception (multiple Deception screens can enhance
          the realism of a Deception).

          Flipping between Deception screens takes a little practice
          because each Deception key can only be hit once.  For
          instance, imagine that you have installed three copies of
          Deceive each with a different Deception Screen and Deception
          key.  When the Deceivee (your boss, or whomever) appears you
          panic and hit the Deception key for the third copy.  After
          peering intently at it for half a minute you decide you'd
          better change screens, so you hit the Deception key for the
          first copy.  After another 30 seconds you decide to switch
          to the second copies Deception Screen so you hit it's
          Deception key.  Now, all three copies have been activated.
          When you desire to switch back to Deception Screens one or
          three the natural tendency will be to hit their Deception
          keys.  When you do that you will find that they don't do
          anything.  To switch back to the previous Deception Screen
          you must end the current Deception (with either the
          Deception key or the escape key as described earlier).
          Ending the second installed copies Deception will take you
          back to the first installed copies Deception Screen.  Then,
          ending the first copies Deception will take you back to the
          third copies Deception Screen.  Ending the third copies
          Deception will take you back to your program.  It sounds
          much harder than it is.  Just try it, you'll get the hang of
          it.  If you lose your place among the Deception Screens
          remember that hitting the escape key enough times will
          sooner or later end the Deception and return you to your
          program.


          Basic Key Definitions

          Deceive uses four keys to control its basic functions.  They
          are:

                                     Alt-E
                                     Alt-C
                                     Alt-B
                                 Deception Key

          Alt-E

          The Alt-E key combination is used to enable and disable
          Alt-B and the Deception Key.  When Deceive is first
          initialized Alt-B and the Deception Key are disabled.
          Pressing Alt-E enables these keys and sounds a low-high tone
          sequence.  Pressing Alt-E again disables the keys and emits
          a high tone-low tone sequence.  During a Deception hitting


          Deceive                      -3-                 Version 1.0










          Alt-E enables or disables the Alt-E function.  If disabled,
          the Alt-E key will no longer enable or disable the Alt-B key
          or the Deception Key.

          Alt-B

          When Alt-B is pressed the screen is blanked and the users
          program continues to run.  This feature is useful for
          allowing a program to initialize while hiding its
          initialization screens and for using Shift-PrtSc to print
          off a screen without the screen being visible on the
          monitor.  Hitting Alt-B a second time unblanks the screen
          and sounds a short beep.

          The Alt-B key is a toggle. Pushed once it blanks the screen.
          Pushed again it unblanks the screen and sounds a beep.
          Sometimes the computer will unblank a screen that has been
          blanked by Alt-B (generally after scrolling or clearing).
          There is no way for the Alt-B function to know that the
          screen has been unblanked.  The next time Alt-B is hit it
          will unblank a screen that has already been unblanked.  This
          is not dangerous, just potentially confusing.  Alt-B beeps
          every time it unblanks the screen just to let you know that
          it thinks the screen needed unblanking Just remember, if you
          hit Alt-B to blank the screen and hear a beep, hit Alt-B
          again to blank the screen.

          The Alt-B key is enabled and disabled by the Alt-E key.  The
          Alt-B key may also be enabled or disabled during a Deception
          by hitting Alt-B.

          Alt-C

          This key combination is used to capture Deception Screens.
          To capture a Deception Screen, run the program necessary to
          display the desired screen and hit Alt-C.  The screen will
          be captured and a short beep will sound.

          Some programs which go around BIOS to access the screen
          buffer directly can are more difficult to capture screens
          from.  Lotus graphs are one example.  For these programs,
          when Alt-C is pressed the screen will display  unreadable
          garbage.  Don't Panic!  Deceive has a facility that allows
          you to update BIOS and restore the screen to its original
          appearance.  To restore the screen, follow the following
          steps:

               1. Press the Deception Key to initiate a Deception

               2. Press F3

               3. Type T and hit the return key



          Deceive                      -4-                 Version 1.0










               4. Type V and hit the return key

               5. Select the most likely screen display mode from the
                   list and hit the return key.

               6. Hit the escape key to end the Deception.

          A complete description of the Screen Mode Alteration
          Facility will be provided later.

          Alt-C is not enabled or disabled by Alt-E.  To enable or
          disable Alt-C initiate a Deception and press Alt-C.

          Deception Key

          The Deception Key is defined by the user and may be any key
          or any Alt, Shift, or Ctrl key combination except for Alt-E,
          Alt-C, or Alt-B.  The Deception Key, when pressed, instantly
          saves the current screen and displays a screen previously
          selected by the user (this is known as initiating a
          Deception).  If the user has not defined a screen to display
          during a Deception, a blank screen is presented.  To end a
          Deception either hit the Deception Key immediately or use
          other keys to make changes to the Deception Screen, then hit
          the escape key.  The Deception Key is enabled and disabled
          by the Alt-E key.  Alternatively, the Deception Key may be
          enabled or disabled during a Deception by hitting the F1
          key.


          Special Functions

          There are several special functions available only during a
          Deception.  While there are many programs directly
          compatible with Deceive, several are not.  These special
          functions can be used to make Deceive compatible with many
          of these programs.  They functions are:

                    F2 - Deception Screen Storage / Retrieval
                    F3 - Screen Mode Freeze Facility
                    F4 - Time Delay Facility


          To access these functions press the appropriate F key during
          a Deception.  When using any of these functions hitting the
          escape key will immediately exit the function and return you
          to the Deception Screen.  The backspace key may be used to
          correct entry mistakes.  If a variables current value is
          displayed, hitting the return key without typing a selection
          will leave the current value unchanged.





          Deceive                      -5-                 Version 1.0










          F2 - Deception Screen Storage / Retrieval

          This facility allows Deception Screens to be saved to disk
          or recalled from disk.  The user must select a file name and
          the desired action (save or retrieve).  The last file name
          used is displayed.  Hit the enter key to reuse the name or
          any other key to enter a new name.  If, after entering a new
          name, you decide to reuse the old name, use the backspace
          key to move the cursor as far left as it will go and hit the
          return key.  Paths may be used in the file name.  After
          entering the desired name you must select the desired
          action.  Type S and hit the return key to save the Deception
          Screen to disk.  Type R and hit the return key to retrieve a
          Deception Screen from disk.  If you hit the return key
          without typing S or R the last action performed that is
          displayed just to the left of the cursor will be repeated.
          When you hit the return key the Deception Screen will be
          saved or recalled and you will be returned to the Deception
          Screen.  If an error occurrs (full disk, invalid file name,
          file not found, etc.) an error beep will sound and you will
          be returned to the Deception Screen.

          F3 - Screen Mode Alteration Facility

          The IBM-PC has several display modes.  Available modes
          include 40 column or 80 column alphanumerics, low resolution
          graphics, and high resolution graphics.  Deceive must have
          accurate knowledge concerning the current screen mode to
          return from a Deception, capture the screen (Alt-C), or
          blank the screen (Alt-B).  Deceive receives its information
          from BIOS.  If BIOS does not know the current mode being
          used, Deceives information will be incorrect.  When this
          happens capturing a screen, blanking the screen, or
          returning from a Deception will result in the True Screen
          being set to a different mode than it was before.  This
          usually will cause the screen to display odd loking,
          unintelligable garbage.  The Screen Mode Alteration Facility
          allows Deceive and BIOS to be updated and can restore the
          true screen (or the Deception Screen) to its proper
          appearance.

          After pressing F3 during a Deception the True Screen or the
          Deception Screen must be selected for alteration.  Then it
          must be decided whether the mode is to be frozen or
          variable.  If the mode is frozen, Deceive will ignore BIOS
          when performing any future action on the selected screen.
          If the mode is variable, Deceive will use the mode you
          select when it returns to the Deception Screen or True
          Screen but will use BIOS to determine the mode for future
          Deceptions, captures, or blanks.

          The final choice is the mode to be used.  For reference, a
          list of the modes supported by BIOS is displayed.  If you


          Deceive                      -6-                 Version 1.0










          are using the monochrome Display Adapter no matter which
          mode you select, BIOS will use mode 7.  If the Color Diplay
          Adapter is being used, DO NOT select mode 7.  This mode is
          for mono displays only.  If you wish to change whether the
          mode is frozen or variable without altering the mode, just
          hit the return key or type 8 and hit the return key.  Once
          all the variables have been entered, Deceive updates the
          mode accordingly and returns to the Deception Screen.

          You should be aware that a very small number of programs use
          a non-standard graphics mode which BIOS and Deceive are
          incapable of duplicating.  For these programs select the IBM
          low resolution color graphics mode.  This mode will not
          display the entire non-standard screen, but works fine in an
          emergency.  As more information becomes available, the modes
          supported by Deceive will be expanded.

          The Screen Mode Alteration Facility is fun!  If you have a
          color display adapter and wish to experiment, try capturing
          a screen, initiating a Deception, and altering the mode of
          the Deception Screen.  Each of the available types of mode
          (80 column vs. 40 or graphics vs. alphanumeric) will
          reinterpret the screen data to give the Deception Screen a
          different appearance.

          F4 - Time Delay Facility

          Deceive operates by directly taking over the IBM-PC's
          keyboard.  Many game programs also take over the keyboard.
          When this occurs, Deceive will no longer operate.  The Time
          Delay Facility provides a means by which Deceive can regain
          control over the keyboard.

          When activated, the Time Delay Facility will wait the
          specified time period and check to make sure that Deceive is
          in control of the keyboard.  If Deceive is not in control,
          the Time Delay Facility gives it control and issues a beep
          to let you know Deceive is operative.  At the users option,
          the delay and check will be preformed either once or
          continuously.

          First, the Time Delay must be activated or halted.  Type R
          to activate the delay or H to halt the delay and hit the
          return key.  If you're activating the Delay the delay time
          will not start until the Time Delay Facility is exited.
          Next, the user must decide if a single delay period and
          check is needed or if multiple checks are required.  Some
          game programs, like the public domain Stargate, retake
          control of the keyboard occasionally.  The Multiple Checks
          mode works nicely with such programs.  Finally, the Delay
          Period must be entered.  At present, the delay period is
          entered in units of system clock ticks.  Clock ticks occur
          at the rate of 18.2 per second.  It is recommended that at


          Deceive                      -7-                 Version 1.0










          least a 1 second delay (delay value of 18) be used to
          minimize system overhead.  In practice, a value of 255 (14
          seconds) works well with most programs.  This usually allows
          enough time to get the program fully initialized before the
          first time delay expires.  After the Time Delay is typed hit
          the return key to enter the value and return to the
          Deception Screen.  If the Timer Run option was selected the
          delay period begins the instant the Time Delay value is
          entered.

          There are a few rare programs that are incompatible with the
          Time Delay function.  These programs, like the public domain
          SI.COM (Space Invaders), lock up after the delay period has
          expired.  The only way to determine compatibility is by
          experimenting.

          If a program requires that the Time Delay Facility be used,
          it is possible (but unlikely) that when the program is ended
          the keyboard will lock up if any key is hit other than the
          Deception Key.  Why?  The Time Delay Facility gave Deceive
          control over the keyboard while a program was running.  When
          a key is hit Deceive checks to see if the key is one it
          cares about (Alt-E, Alt-B, Alt-C, or the Deception Key) then
          passes control back to the program you're running.  Deceive
          has no way of knowing that you ended the program.  When you
          end the program, if the next key you hit is not one of
          Deceive's keys, Deceive will pass control to a program that
          is no longer there.  The results are unpredictable.  The
          only way to avoid this is to initiate a Deception
          immediately after exiting the program.  During the
          Deception, reboot.  To date, no program has been found where
          this problem has occurred.  Most game programs which require
          the use of the Time Delay Facility require that the system
          be rebooted or turned off to exit.  If this potential
          problem arises, let me know.




















          Deceive                      -8-                 Version 1.0










                            User Supported Software


          For those who have never been exposed, User Supported
          Software is a distribution concept begun by Andrew
          Fluegelman with PC-Talk.  It is based on the assumption that
          if a user gets a chance to try a program and likes it, he or
          she will voluntarily contribute to the support of the
          program.  Users are usually encouraged to copy and
          distribute User Supported programs freely.

          Deceive is being distributed as User Supported Software.  If
          you're using Deceive and like it (or if it's saved your
          job!), and you want to contribute to its further
          improvement, please send $5.00 (dirt cheap!) to:


                              Carl Burtner
                              435 Brandon Road
                              Rochester, NY    14622


          Contributors to the program will be informed by mail of the
          availability of new revisions.  Your voice makes a
          difference!  Major revisions will probably not be undertaken
          without positive user response.

          You are encouraged to make as many copies of Deceive as you
          like and to distribute unmodified copies of the program and
          documentation to whomever you choose.

          If you have questions, suggestions, or problems with
          Deceive, please feel free to contact me.






















          Deceive                      -9-                 Version 1.0










                               In Case Of Trouble
                  (a statement of sympathy for the disturbed)


          Deceive has been tested for compatibility with as many
          different computers and software packages as possible.
          However, not every PC-compatible computer could be tested
          with every available software package.  Also, no matter how
          much testing is done, no program is totally bug free.  You
          use this program at your own risk.  If you lose data or blow
          your system it's your lose, even if Deceive is at fault.  I
          assume no responsibility other than the courtesy of a
          sympathetic ear.  Deceive attempts to outguess the way most
          programs will operate and gives you some powerful and
          perhaps deadly tools to fight with.  With a program of this
          type it is impossible to guarantee compatibility with all
          other programs.  Deceive works with most programs and is
          totally incompatible with some.  Thats the most you can
          expect.  I think it does a pretty good job.  I hope you will
          too.


         ------------------------------------------------------------

                   This disk copy provided as a service of

                        The Public (Software) Library

                           the software library of
                     The Houston Area League of PC Users


         For a copy of the latest monthly software library newsletter
          and a list of the 600+ disks in the library, call or write

                        The Public (Software) Library
                                P.O.Box 35705
                           Houston, TX 77235-5705
                               (713) 721-6104

            Newsletter subscriptions are available for $12 a year.

         ------------------------------------------------------------




          Deceive                     -10-                 Version 1.0

