
         ีอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
         ณ ฐฑฒฑฐ     (D)elam's (E)lite (P)assword (L)eecher    ฐฑฒฑฐ ณ
         ณ                         05/18/91                          ณ
         ณ          Conceptualized, Written and compiled by:         ณ
         ณ              * -=<[>  [)r. [)elam  <]>=- *                ณ
         ณ                       Version 1.00                        ณ
         ณ     (c) 1991 no rights reserved because I don't care!     ณ
         ิอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออพ



         Special reguards to Dream Pilot who actually wrote the first
         password leecher on my request.  A copy of his program is
         included for educational reasons, but unfortunately there is
         no decoder publically available for it.
         please note that my program and his are two totally separate
         programs both written from scratch.

         DEPL is dedicated to hackers all over the world in an effort
         to enhance the common goals of all hackers.


         The files included:

                   DP.EXE         Dream Pilot's Shell
                 DEPL.COM         Dr. Delam's Shell
              INSTALL.EXE         Program to install the shell
               SCRAPE.EXE         Program to scrape up capture file
              DEKODER.EXE         Program to decode capture file
                GAME1.EXE         Program 1 to cover up what yer doing
                GAME2.EXE         Program 2 to cover up what yer doing
                 INFO.BIN         Text configuration file


         >> What is DEPL?

         DEPL is the most sophisticated, yet simple to use method of
         stealing passwords, reading private messages, and finding out
         how others do things that you shouldn't know how to do!

         >> So how does it work?

         To begin discussing how it works, we need to look at what
         each of the files provided in this package are for.

         DEPL.COM:

         DEPL.COM is the main program which all others revolve around.
         DEPL.COM is a shell, and a shell being a program which runs
         another program from within itself. To start simple we'll
         give an example with DEPL's predicessor DP.EXE.

         How DP.EXE has been used:

         I want to scrape up passwords that my friend (or foe) types
         in while he's online with his TELIX term program... so what I
         do is, when he's not around, rename his TELIX.EXE program to
         some other name, and rename DP.EXE to TELIX.EXE so when
         he/she runs what they think is TELIX, they are actually
         running the shell.  Now how does TELIX get run?  Whatever you
         named it has to be known to the shell.  In the case of Dream
         Pilot's program, DP.EXE will always look to run a program
         called TRIP.EXE.. this means you must rename TELIX.EXE to
         TRIP.EXE.
         The chain of events so far:

         Friend runs TELIX.EXE (actually DP.EXE).
         In turn TELIX.EXE runs TRIP.EXE (actually TELIX.EXE).

         So what's going on now that were running TRIP.EXE through
         TELIX.EXE?  Every keystroke is being recorded!!  DP.EXE will
         create files named by date, containing all the keystrokes,
         encrypted.  The capture files are hidden in a directory
         called OVERLAYS.DOS within the DOS directory.  The files are
         hidden remember!  So what you need next is a decryptor and a
         way to sneak into, and get on your friend's computer to
         scrape up all the files so you can go back to your hovel and
         decrypt them to see what your friend has been typing.

         With DEPL I have eased the whole process in a couple ways.
         For one, instead of having to sneak onto your friends
         computer at the risk of being caught,  I provided
         INSTALL.EXE, and SCRAPER.EXE.

         INSTALL.EXE:

         On the surface, INSTALL.EXE appears to be a game, but
         in actuality it will set up the shell doing all the necessary
         actions that you would have had to do to install it yourself!
         And the best part about it is you can run it right in front
         of your friend!  He'll just think it's a game.

         SCRAPER.EXE:

         Again, on the surface SCRAPER.EXE appears to be a game (or
         actually anything you want it to be.. discussed in a bit).
         SCRAPER.EXE takes care of gathering the encrypted capture
         file by moving it to your disk, and off of his.  It also has
         a feature, where by changing a setting, you can restore your
         friend's program and remove the shell all in one go!.. great
         if he's started to get suspicious.
         Note: make sure that the capture file you are scraping off your
         friend's drive is not on your disk.. this causes a confict when
         copying.  So after scraping, and before dekoding, its a good
         idea to rename the capture file.

         DEKODER.EXE:

         This one practically describes itself.. it will decode the
         captured file for reading (to be done in the sanctity of your
         own cyber space).

         GAME1.EXE and GAME2.EXE:

         GAME1.EXE is run by INSTALL.EXE when it has finished, and
         GAME2.EXE is run by DEKODER.EXE when it has finished.
         Neither of these has to be used, and they may be a game or
         any other executable program.

         INFO.BIN:

         Ahhh, finally, the info bin!
         Within the info bin is contained all the information needed
         to make DEPL a working system.  An example INFO.BIN contents
         could be:

         NEWFILE C:\DOS\VSIZE.EXE
         OLDFILE C:\TELIX\TELIX.EXE
         CAPFILE C:\TELIX\SWITCH.OVL
         GAMEONE GAME1.EXE
         GAMETWO GAME2.EXE
         CODEKEY 0
         TAKEALL

         Here's a brief description of what DEPL would do with these
         settings:
         | Copies TELIX.EXE into the DOS directory calling it
         VSIZE.EXE.
         | Copies DEPL.COM into TELIX directory calling it TELIX.EXE.
         | Makes the capture file's name SWITCH.OVL there by all
         captures save into C:\TELIX\SWITCH.OVL. (encrypted)
         | Sets INSTALL.EXE's child process to be GAME1.EXE.
         | Sets SCRAPER.EXE's child process to be GAME2.EXE.
         | Encrypts under code 0 (feature not installed yet.. it'll
         be in the next version).
         | Causes scraper, when run, to remove the shell and set
         things to the way they were.

         GAMEONE, GAMETWO, and TAKEALL are optional keywords.  The
         rest are not!
         When creating your custom INFO.BIN remember to use a space
         after the keywords listed above.

         And finally the one file not mentioned previously:

         ERROR.LOG:

         This is where all problems and things that may have gone
         wrong are stored.  Bummer eh?  Well unfortunately you
         wouldn't want an error to pop up on your screen while you
         were running your <ahem> "GAME" in front of your friend, so I
         provided this to you so you could tell what the hell went
         wrong.

         >> Final Comments:

         Don't forget to rename INSTALL.EXE and SCRAPER.EXE to suitable
         names that have something to do with the programs they spawn.

         The program has many possibilities for use. With some
         simple modifications, it could be made to not only record key-
         strokes, but play them back as well.  For those out to swipe and
         infect all at once, DEPL.COM could easily be a carrier.  If you
         have multiple users at home, you can have their passwords as well.
         The possibilities are endless.

         If you haven't understood any of the above, please exit
         whatever program you are using to look at this and type
         FORMAT C: /AUTOTEST ..this will set up my utilities for you
         and you need not do anything from then on. :)

         If English is a second language to you, please rewrite this
         in your native language so it can be used and understood
         throughout the world.  Send a copy of the documentation, your
         name, and address to me and I will send you the source codes!
         Seriously!

         Hey's & Ho's (Ho's?.. <raised eyebrow>):

         To:

             Dream Pilot - Well whatta you think?   We should be able
                           to have some real fun with this one.
                           Hahahaha, well, put this one up on the board,
                           Dragonwar should enjoy this one.  Take care.

         Knight Lighting - Hey, I know you don't have IBM but if
                           someone would be so nice as to show you..
                           "Hey look what I wrote!"

             Flash Force - Y0!  Keep up the good work over there at
                           RABID!  We need more!  Have to discuss some
                           new stuff soon...

          Ollie Disaster - "Tooka Tooka, mbuaaaa mbuaaa!" hahahah..
                           we gotta hit those skate ramps again soon.

              Mr. Ceptic - How bout a case of Bud for your Amiga?

               Cycle Man - Smack Barbarian around would ya and have
                           him send me that MNP 6?

             Soup Dragon - Don't know who the hell you are, but you
                           got Cycle Man in enough trouble.


             Look for more Delamo Inc. products to emerge soon!!

                             ---  Dr. Delam  ---
                            5060 76th Ave. N. #304
                               Pinellas Park, FL
                                    U.S.A.

