






















                         Game Wizard 32 Shareware Version

                       THE ULTIMATE GAME CHEATING EXPERIENCE

                  Copyright (c) 1995 by Ray Hsu & Gerald Ryckman
                              All rights reserved.

                                  Licensed to:

		           Enhanced Software Design Inc.
			   P.O. Box 92241
			   2900 Warden Ave.
			   Scarborough, ON
                           Canada  M1W 3Y9

                           Phone   (416) 492-0157
                           BBS No. (416) 497-8337

        	Voice support is available for registered users only




Table of Contents
-----------------

Disclaimer and Warranty  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Licensing and Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
System Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Getting Started  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Number Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Using Game Wizard 32 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
  Memory Address Search  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
  Result of Memory Address Search  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
  Table of Memory Locations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
  Edit Memory Contents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
  File Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
    File Viewer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
    Hex File Editor  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  Game Playing Speed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  Picture Grabber  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  Protect Screen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  Boss Screen with Password  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
  View Current Program Screen  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
  Load Previous Saved Program from Disk  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
  Save Current Program to Disk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
  Crash Back to DOS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
  DOS Shell  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
  Miscellaneous Commands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Searching Techniques . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Command Line Options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Questions & Answers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18




Disclaimer and Warranty
-----------------------

Game Wizard 32 is distributed "AS IS".  The authors specifically disclaim
all warranties, expressed or implied.  In no event shall the authors be
liable for any damages either from the direct use of this product or as a
consequence of the use of this product.  Because of the various hardware
and software environments in which Game Wizard 32 may be used, no warranty
of fitness for a particular purpose is offered.



Licensing and Distribution
--------------------------

Game Wizard 32 is NOT public domain.  It is copyrighted software
distributed as shareware.  Game Wizard 32 may not be changed or modified
in any way except by the authors.  This shareware version may be freely
distributed as long as it remains in its complete form with all support
and documentation files.  Please note that a great deal of time and effort
has been invested in the development of this program.  You are granted a
license to try Game Wizard 32 for a 30 day trial period.  If, after this
time, you are satisfied with this program and intend to continue using it;
you must register it.

The payment of this registration fee entitles the user to receive the
release of Game Wizard 32 with additional features and a printed manual.
Please refer to the REGISTER.DOC file for further information on
registration and pricing.

If you obtained this program from a shareware disk distributor, then you
have only paid for the service of copying this disk; but you have not paid
for the program itself.  The authors have received no proceeds from the
payment already paid to the shareware disk distributor for this program.

All products or services mentioned in this manual, including: PC, AT, PS/2,
PENTIUM, IBM, VGA, VESA, TRIDENT, SOUND BLASTER, GRAVIS ULTRASOUND, ADLIB,
PRO AUDIO SPECTRUM, MS-DOS, DR-DOS, EMM386, QEMM386, 386MAX, NETROOM,
DOS4GW, MS WINDOWS, DESQVIEW, OS/2, WINDOWS NT, VCPI, STACKER, DOUBLE SPACE,
SIMCITY 2000, DOOM 2 and CIVILIZATION are trademarks, registered trademarks,
service marks, or registered service marks of their respective companies or
organizations.



System Requirements
-------------------

- 80386 or better processors.
- DOS 3.1 or higher.
- VGA Graphic Card.
- 100% IBM compatible computer.






 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 2 -                    Reference Guide



Features
--------

Game Wizard 32 currently supports the following features:

 - Compatible with:
	- 386/486/Pentium/Pentium Pro Systems
	- MS-DOS versions from 3.1 to 6.2 and DR-DOS 5 to 6
	- DOS Extender support under all popular memory managers
	- Searching any extended memory address
        - Edit any extended memory address
        - Disk compression utilities, such as STACKER, DOUBLE SPACE, etc.
	- AdLib, Sound Blaster, Sound Blaster Pro, Sound Blaster 16, Sound
	  Blaster AWE32, Pro Audio Spectrum and MIDI compatible sound cards
  	- Memory managers, such as QEMM386, 386MAX, NETROOM, and EMM386
  	- VGA and SVGA VESA v1.0+ standard
  	- Different mouse drivers
 - Ability to search and edit any memory address
 - Ability to capture any EGA/VGA/SVGA graphic screen to disk
 - Ability to use EMS/XMS for super fast program operation
 - Requires 13K of conventional memory
 - Requires no conventional memory on systems with memory managers that are
   capable of loading programs high
*- Enhanced file manager capable of editing any file
 - Math Co-Processor support
 - Fully configurable with the ability to unload itself from memory.
*- ENHANCED Search Engine capable of finding almost anything imaginable
   (Intermediate and Advanced search methods)
 - Ability to alter and freeze the parameters of any game
+- Ability to store and freeze up to 90 entries in each cheat table,
   including extended memory
 - Ability to save cheat tables for games so that they can be reused
   at a later date by you or by any other Game Wizard 32 user
+- Ability to view any text file (i.e. hints or solutions) within games
 - Adjusts game speed for optimal playability
 - Built-in screen saver to prolong the longevity of your monitor
 - BOSS screen with password option to prevent your boss or your mom :=)
   from realizing that you are playing games instead of working
 - Ability to pause and view the screen so that subsequent moves can be
   more carefully planned
*- Ability to Save and Load most games including EMS/XMS/DOS4GW and SVGA
   games, anytime or anywhere, regardless of whether or not the game has
   its own save/load functions.  (Note: Some games only permit saving and
   loading at a certain time or place, or NOT at all)
 - Ability to Crash to DOS from within any game (i.e. enables one to exit
   from the game into DOS).
*- Ability to Shell to DOS from within any game.
 - Ability to activate Game Wizard 32 using the mouse buttons
 - Enhanced modem and network support

* Available in Game Wizard 32 Pro version only
+ Available in Game Wizard 32 Standard and Game Wizard 32 Pro versions






 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 3 -                    Reference Guide



Introduction
------------

Game Wizard 32 is an innovative and versatile program which will allow the
user to participate more intelligently in computer games.  What is
particularly useful is that Game Wizard 32's features may be applied to
any program or game.  Game Wizard 32 permits the user to enhance the
features of the game as well as the speed of the game.  The user is also
able to save and load a program at a later time, regardless of whether or
not this was originally a feature in the game.  Any modification made to the
game will not alter the program stored on disk, but only the game currently
in memory.  By experimenting with Game Wizard 32, you will be able to
increase your knowledge of how games and other computer programs work.  More
complex modifications or enhancements can then be made to those programs.
Game Wizard 32 can be applied to almost all existing games, or future games
without the need to purchase additional codes or modules.



Getting Started
---------------

Game Wizard 32 can be installed onto your computer very easily, simply copy
or extract all the files from the compressed file into a directory that is
defined in your DOS PATH.  You may optionally create a new directory to hold
the Game Wizard 32 files (i.e. C:\GW).  If you choose this option, you must
EITHER add the new directory name to your DOS PATH in your AUTOEXEC.BAT,
OR ALWAYS start Game Wizard 32 from the new directory you have created.

After copying or extracting the files to the directory of your choice, type
in GWSETUP and press Enter at the DOS prompt to configure Game Wizard 32
for your computer.  After configuring Game Wizard 32 type GWSHARE and press
the Enter key at the DOS prompt.  This will allow Game Wizard 32 to become
TSR (Terminate & Stay Resident).  Game Wizard 32 can then be activated at
anytime by pressing the ` key (i.e. the key next to the 1 and above the
tab).  Now that Game Wizard 32 is resident in memory, you may want to try
our interactive demo (GWTUTOR.EXE) for a quick introduction to Game
Wizard 32.


Number Systems
--------------
Although most people are familiar with the decimal number system, it cannot
be easily incorporated into computers.  Since computers can only tell
whether a signal is high or low (i.e. on or off), a number system
consisting of 1's or 0's must be used by the computer internally.  This is
known as the binary number system.

With only 1 or 0, it is impossible to store large quantities of
information.  Only two separate items can be represented simultaneously
(this is known as a bit).  However, binary digits can be grouped together
to represent more information.  A group of 8 binary digits (8 bits) is
commonly known as a byte.  A byte can represent up to 256 different pieces
of information.  If two bytes or 16 bits are grouped together (commonly
known as a word); 65,536 pieces of information can be represented at once.



 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 4 -                    Reference Guide



For values larger than 65,536; four bytes or 32 bits can be grouped
together (commonly know as a  dword) so that 2,147,483,647 pieces of
information can be represented at once. Table 1 illustrates the first few
binary numbers and their decimal and hexadecimal equivalents.

+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------+
|        BINARY         |         DECIMAL           |      HEXADECIMAL     |
|-----------------------|---------------------------|----------------------|        0000           |            0              |           00         |
|        0001           |            1              |           01         |
|        0010           |            2              |           02         |
|        0011           |            3              |           03         |
|        0100           |            4              |           04         |
|        0101           |            5              |           05         |
|        0110           |            6              |           06         |
|        0111           |            7              |           07         |
|        1000           |            8              |           08         |
|        1001           |            9              |           09         |
|        1010           |           10              |           0A         |
|        1011           |           11              |           0B         |
|        1100           |           12              |           0C         |
|        1101           |           13              |           0D         |
|        1110           |           14              |           0E         |
|        1111           |           15              |           0F         |
|      1 0000           |           16              |           10         |
|      1 0001           |           17              |           11         |
|   0110 0100           |          100              |           64         |
|   1100 1000           |          200              |           C8         |
|   1111 1111           |          255              |           FF         |
| 1 0000 0000           |          256              |        01 00         |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------+

As binary numbers increase in size, humans experience greater difficulty
in reading them.  Hence, a hexadecimal number system was developed to
address this problem.  Hexadecimal is a base 16 number system.  Its digits
are represented by 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, A, B, C, D, E, and F.



Using Game Wizard 32
--------------------

The following sections contain detailed information on the operation and
usage of each of the features within Game Wizard 32.



Memory Address Search
---------------------

The Memory Address Search option will enable you to find items within a game
(i.e. lives, ammunition, coordinates, money, invulnerability, etc.).

There are three search methods: Basic, Intermediate, and Advanced.  The
Intermediate and Advanced search options are only available in Game
Wizard 32 Pro.



 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 5 -                    Reference Guide



After the Memory Address Search is selected, input the number you are trying
to locate into the search slot and press the Enter key to begin searching.

Function Keys
-------------

Ctrl-E   This is used when you have completed the current search and wish
	 to begin a new search session.

Ctrl-P   This option is invoked when an incorrect number was entered in the
         previous search attempt.  This only allows you to return to the
	 previous search attempt and cannot be used consecutively.

Esc      This will abort the search


Search Methods
--------------

Each of the search methods is explained in the following sections.


Basic
-----

The Basic search method should be used if you know exactly what you are
looking for (i.e. money, lives, bullets, etc.).

For example, suppose the game begins with three lives.  Activate Game
Wizard 32; select Memory Address Search; choose the Basic option; input
the number of lives at the search prompt (i.e. 3) and press Enter to begin
searching.  After returning to the Main Menu, press Esc to exit Game
Wizard 32 and return to the game.  Play the game until the number of lives
has changed, then activate Game Wizard 32 again.  Select the Memory Address
Search, and type in the new number of lives (i.e. 2).  If it finds 8
possibilities or less, it will automatically go to the Result of Memory
Address Search screen and wait for you to make a selection.  The above
process of returning to the game and activating Game Wizard 32 to input new
search values should be repeated until the correct address has been found.

When searching for an item, Game Wizard 32 will also look for the value
that is 1 less than the actual value entered.  This is performed because
the value that is stored in memory is sometimes one less than the number
displayed by the game.  Some game programmers use this method for storing
items.



Intermediate & Advanced ( Game Wizard 32 Pro version only)
-----------------------

These options are used when the actual value of the items you wish to search
for are unknown (i.e. energy bars, coordinates in a game, inventory items,
invulnerability, etc.).  Sometimes the programmers purposely store the data
in an unconventional manner.  Game Wizard 32 also has the capability of
locating those types of data using the Intermediate and Advanced search
methods.

 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 6 -                    Reference Guide



Result of Memory Address Search
-------------------------------

After using the Memory Address Search to locate possible addresses for an
item, the user must select the Result of Memory Address Search function in
order to determine the correct address.  When searching for an item with
the Basic option, usually only a few possible addresses will be found.
However, more possible addresses may be found when using the Intermediate
and Advanced options.

The Result of Memory Address Search function will allow the user to browse
through up to 100 memory addresses using the cursor keys.  An entry with a
* beside it represents an address that is located in the system's extended
memory (above the first meg.).  A selection can be made by moving the black
highlight bar over the memory address that best matches the search criteria
that was used and then pressing Enter to select it.  If more than 100
addresses are found, the message "More searches are required to determine
the exact address..." will be displayed.

When scrolling through the list, the current memory value for the address
that is highlighted will be displayed on the top of the window.  The value
will be shown in byte, word and dword formats.  The total number of
possible matches will also be shown on the top of the window.

The memory location that was selected becomes the Selected Address that
will be used by the Table of Memory Locations and Edit Memory Contents
functions.

Sometimes, more than one memory address will be found that matches the
search criteria.  If this is the case, trial and error must be used to
determine the actual address where the data is stored.


Keys
----

A	 Add highlighted memory address to the Table of Memory Locations

Enter	 Select the highlighted memory address

Esc	 Return to the main menu



Table of Memory Locations
-------------------------

After using the Result of Memory Address Search to select the possible
addresses of items in memory, the user should input the Selected Address
into the Table of Memory Locations.  By creating an entry in the Table of
Memory Locations, the value of that address can be modified or frozen. Each
entry consists of five columns: Freeze (first column) which displays
whether the item is frozen or not; Description (second column) which is
used to identify the entry; Size (third column) which is used to determine
the maximum value that can be edited; Address (fourth column) or the
memory location of the item (extended memory addresses will have a * beside


 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 7 -                    Reference Guide



them); and Value (fifth column) which shows the current value of the
Specified Address for this entry.  A negative number may appear in some
games when an excessively large number has been entered in the value
column.  This can be resolved by placing a smaller number in the value
column. Please note that the Address column is in hexadecimal while the
Value column is in decimal format.


Keys
----
E	 Edit/Create the highlighted entry.  Once you are in the Edit mode,
	 the following commands can be found at the bottom of the screen:

	 Tab     Move to the next column
	 Ctrl-S  Input the Selected Address into the entry column (only
	 	 necessary if the Address column is not 00000000)
	 Enter	 Save changes made to the entry
	 Esc	 Abort all changes made

F	 Toggles whether a particular entry in the table is frozen or not.
	 Freezing a particular memory address prevents its value from being
	 modified.  When frozen, the entry will be highlighted white and a
	 dot will appear in the brackets to the left of the description.

L	 Loads a previously saved table into memory.  Tables should ONLY be
	 loaded inside a game.  When a table is loaded, it is recalculated
	 based on criteria within that particular game.  If it is loaded
	 outside the game, the table may not function properly.

N	 Clear (remove) all entries from the current table

S	 Save all of the entries in a table to disk.  Tables should only be
	 saved inside a game.  If the table is NOT saved inside the game, it
	 may not function correctly when loaded.  When saving the table,
	 you will be prompted for a filename (no extension needed) and
	 a brief description.

Delete   Delete an entry from the table

Enter	 Edit the value of the highlighted entry

Esc	 Return to the Main Menu.



Edit Memory Contents
--------------------

This version of Game Wizard 32 can only edit and search conventional memory.
Game Wizard 32 Pro will allow the user to edit and search conventional
or extended memory.  This is especially useful in adventure games when
large quantities of data need to be modified.  It can also be used to
locate and alter names, descriptions, patterns, etc. within games.




 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 8 -                    Reference Guide



Keys
----

E	 Edit the memory region currently displayed on the screen.  Once in
	 Edit mode, you will be presented with the following commands:

	 Tab	Switch between Hexadecimal/ASCII editing modes
	 Ctrl-S	Save changes made to memory
	 Esc	Return from editing memory

G	 Allows the user to move directly to a particular address rather
	 than scrolling through memory with the cursor keys.

H	 Allows the user to convert from hexadecimal to decimal and vice
	 versa.  Once in the hex converter, the following commands are
	 available:

	 Tab	Switch between hexadecimal/decimal entry modes
	 Enter	Convert the value entered
	 Esc	Return from hexadecimal/decimal converter

N	 Repeat the previous search

S	 Search for a hexadecimal or ASCII string from the current position
	 in the memory editor.  When searching, the following commands are
	 available:

	 Tab	Switch between hexadecimal/ASCII search modes
	 Ctrl-C	Toggle case sensitivity.  When the dot is displayed, case
	 	sensitivity is on
	 Enter	Commence search for inputted data
	 Esc	Return from search

Ctrl-G	 Go to the address that was selected in the Result of Memory
	 Address Search.  Sometimes you may wish to edit a particular
	 memory location only once.  If this is the case, it may be faster
	 and easier to modify it by using the Edit Memory Contents rather
	 than using the Table of Memory Locations.  This is achieved by
	 pressing Ctrl-G to go to the selected address and then using the
	 Enter key (edit function) to modify this particular value.

Esc	 Return to the Main Menu



File Manager
------------

This Game Wizard 32 option can be used to copy, move, delete, rename, view
and edit files with ease.   The source directory is the current directory
that you are in, and the destination directory is the default directory
where the files will be copied or moved to.  You may override the default
destination directory by specifying a different one.





 Game Wizard 32 Shareware          - 9 -                    Reference Guide



Keys
----

PgUp		Scroll up one full page
PgDn		Scroll down one full page
Home		Go to the beginning of the file
End		Go to the end of the file
Enter		View a file
F1		Copy file(s)
F2		Delete file(s)
F3		Move file(s)
F4		Rename file(s)
F5		Unmark all files
F6		Mark all files
F7		Hex edit a file
F8		Help
F9		Change source directory
F10		Change destination directory
Space		Mark or unmark a file

File Sorting Options
--------------------

Alt-D		Sort files by date (ascending order)
Alt-E		Sort files by extension (ascending order)
Alt-N		Sort files by name (ascending order)
Alt-S		Sort files by size (ascending order)
Ctrl-D		Sort files by date (descending order)
Ctrl-E		Sort files by extension (descending order)
Ctrl-N		Sort files by name (descending order)
Ctrl-S		Sort files by size (descending order)

Set/Clear File Attributes (single or marked files)
-------------------------

Alt-A		Set archive file attribute
Alt-H		Set hidden file attribute
Alt-R		Set read only file attribute
Alt-Y		Set system file attribute
Ctrl-A		Clear archive file attribute
Ctrl-H		Clear hidden file attribute
Ctrl-R		Clear read only file attribute
Ctrl-Y		Clear system file attribute


File Viewer
-----------

The File Viewer is only available in Game Wizard 32 Standard and Game
Wizard 32 Pro.  It will allow the user to view any text file (i.e. hints
or solutions) within any game.







 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 10 -                    Reference Guide



Hex File Editor
---------------

The Hex File Editor is only available in Game Wizard 32 Pro.  It will
allow the user to hex edit any file (i.e. save game data) within any game.



Game Playing Speed
------------------

Game Wizard 32 can slow down and speed up your game playing speed.  It was
designed to allow increased playabililty of older games on modern fast
computers.

Use the cursor keys to adjust the speed index and press the Enter key to
activate it.

This feature may not work with all games.  The speed of most games can be
decreased but only in some games can the speed be increased.  Whether the
speed can be adjusted depends on how the game was programmed.  Some games
were designed to run at a specific speed.  Altering their speed may cause
them to crash or behave abnormally.

The speed index is only calibrated the very first time Game Wizard 32 is
executed.  To recalibrate the delay factor for the speed index, use the
/recalc command line option.  This may be necessary when using different
memory managers.



Picture Grabber
---------------

This option is only available in Game Wizard 32 Pro.  This feature will
save the current EGA/VGA/SVGA graphic screen to a .PCX file.  Use the
command line option /PCXPATH to change the default save directory for the
.PCX files.  Please refer to the Advanced Command Line Option section for
more information on this option.



Protect Screen
--------------

This feature blanks the screen to prevent screen burn in.  Game Wizard 32
will also protect the screen if it is activated and no key is pressed for a
specific length of time. The default screen blanking time is 3 minutes.
This blanking time can be in the range of 1 - 60 minutes.  The default delay
may be adjusted and saved with the /b= command line option.

i.e. To set the screen blanking delay to 10 minutes use GWSHARE /b=10 at the
     command line.





 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 11 -                    Reference Guide



Boss Screen
-----------

Any text screen and password can be used by Game Wizard 32 to hide the
current game screen.  It can be used to hide a game from your boss or
prevent a nosy person from playing with your computer while you are away!
In order to create a new Boss Screen, you must first delete the existing
GW.BOS file from the Game Wizard 32 directory.  You may then capture
the currently displayed text screen by activating Game Wizard 32 and
selecting the Boss Screen option.  This screen will then be shown
everytime the Boss Screen option is used.  Remember that a correct
password must be entered in order to exit the Boss Screen.  The default
password is GW (you must press the Enter key after typing the password).
To adjust and save a new default password (maximum 8 characters), use the
/p= command line option.

i.e. To set the default password to book use GWSHARE /p=book at the command
     line.



View Current Program Screen
---------------------------

This allows the user to view the current game screen.  In the excitement of
the game, a player may not be aware of the exact details (i.e. lives,
ammunition, etc.) of the game.  These details can be easily verified with
this option.  Prior to searching or editing memory, it may also be a good
idea to confirm the items you plan to search for or edit by using this
feature.



Save & Load
-----------

The Save & Load functions are only available in Game Wizard 32 Pro.  They
will allow the user to save and load programs including EMS/XMS/DOS4GW and
SVGA states, for use at a later time even though this feature may not be
built into the game.  This is not a substitute for the internal save and
load feature within games.  It is designed for games that do not have
save/load features or games that only allow you to save at a certain time
or place.



Crash to DOS
------------

This feature will terminate the program that is currently running and
return the user to the DOS prompt.

Game Wizard 32's Crash to DOS was designed to be used with programs that do
not have their own exit to DOS function.  It also allows the user to exit
back to DOS from a system crash which was caused by a poorly programmed
game. After selecting this function, all of the memory and the devices that


 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 12 -                    Reference Guide



were used after running Game Wizard 32 will be reset and the system will
return to its original configuration.

Crash to DOS will NOT terminate a batch file already in progress, but will
clear the program that is currently being executed.  It will then proceed
to the next command in the batch file.



DOS Shell
---------

The DOS Shell function is only available in Game Wizard 32 Pro.  Game
Wizard 32's DOS Shell function was designed to allow programs to shell to
DOS by swapping the program that is currently being executed into
EMS/XMS/DISK.  This will free most of the conventional memory and allow
the user to perform everyday tasks.  The user can return from the DOS Shell
back to the game anytime they choose.



Miscellaneous Commands
----------------------

In the Main Menu, there are a few hidden keys that are included to increase
the compatibility with certain programs.  The following keys are available:

Keys (on the numeric pad)
-------------------------

Grey Minus - On some slow systems, a game might become slightly slower after
	     returning from Game Wizard 32.  To solve this problem, activate
	     Game Wizard 32 and press the Grey Minus key a few times to
	     adjust the speed of the game back to its original state.

Grey *     - This is equivalent to the Esc key in the Main Menu.  This is
             provided because in some poorly programmed games, the Esc key
             that was used to exit Game Wizard 32 is also acknowledged by
	     the game (i.e. it might cause the game to exit prematurely).

In some games you may wish to automatically repeat a certain key.  This can
be accomplished by holding down that key while activating Game Wizard 32.
To disable this feature, press the "auto repeat" key again.



Searching Techniques
--------------------

Games that contain items with known values can be located quickly using the
Basic Memory Address Search.  The Basic search method operates under the
principle of eliminating addresses that do not match the search criteria
specified.  The most efficient way to accomplish this is by searching for
memory values that were changed since the previous search.  In some games,
after an address is modified or frozen, its values may not be changed on



 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 13 -                    Reference Guide



the screen.  You may have to wait until the program updates the value on
the screen to see the change.

We will illustrate the process of using the Basic Search Method in the
following games: Doom 2 and Civilization.


DOOM 2
------

In this game, suppose you wanted to find the location of your bullets in
memory.  The following procedure may be used:

1.  Make sure that Game Wizard 32 is resident in memory.
2.  Run Doom 2.
3.  When starting a level, wait until 50 bullets are displayed on the
    screen.
4.  Activate Game Wizard 32 by pressing the ` key (i.e. the key next to
    the 1 and above the tab).  Select Memory Address Search in the Main
    Menu.
5.  When prompted by "Search for:", enter 50 which is the value of the
    bullets, and then press the Enter key.
6.  In the Main Menu, press Esc to return to the game.  Fire the gun ONCE
    to change the number of bullets.
7.  Activate Game Wizard 32.  Select Memory Address Search in the Main Menu.
8.  Input 49 as the new value of the bullets and press the Enter key.
9.  At this point Game Wizard 32 should be able to determine the memory
    address where the bullets are stored.
10. Game Wizard 32 will then automatically go to the Result of Memory
    Address Search option.  A selection can then be made by moving the
    black highlight bar over the memory address and pressing the Enter key.
11. Now that an address has been selected, go to the Table of Memory
    Locations.  Begin a new table by pressing E to edit the entry.  Select
    byte as the size of the entry.  Type in "Bullets" for the Description,
    and press either Enter or Tab to go to the next column (address column).
    The Selected Address should already be automatically entered in the
    address column by Game Wizard 32 (if not, press Ctrl-S to input it).
    Then press either Enter or Tab to move to the next column (value
    column).  Now input 100 (for 100 bullets) and press Enter to save the
    entry.
12. You should then freeze the value of the bullets so that the value cannot
    be modified by the program.  This is accomplished by pressing the F key.
    Return to the game and you should now have unlimited bullets.



Civilization
------------

In this game, suppose you wanted to find the location of the money in
memory.  The following procedure may be used:

1.  Make sure that Game Wizard 32 is resident in memory.
2.  Run Civilization and begin a new game.
3.  Activate Game Wizard 32 by pressing the ` key (the key next to the 1
    and above the tab).  Select Memory Address Search in the Main Menu.


 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 14 -                    Reference Guide



4.  When prompted by "Search for:", enter 0 which is the value of the
    money, and then press the Enter key.
5.  In the Main Menu, press Esc to return to the game.  Play the game until
    you get some money.
6.  Activate Game Wizard 32.  Select Memory Address Search in the Main Menu.
7.  Input the new value of the money and press the Enter key (Repeat steps
    5 to 7 as many times as necessary).
8.  At this point Game Wizard 32 should be able to determine the memory
    address where the money is stored.
9.  Game Wizard 32 will then automatically go to the Result of Memory
    Address Search option.  A selection can then be made by moving the
    black highlight bar over the memory address and pressing the Enter key.
10. Now that an address has been selected, go to the Table of Memory
    Locations.  Begin a new table by pressing E to edit the entry.  Select
    WORD as the size of the entry.  Type in "Money" for the Description,
    and press either Enter or Tab to go to the next column (address column).
    The Selected Address should already be automatically entered in the
    address column by Game Wizard 32 (if not, press Ctrl-S to input it).
    Then press either Enter or Tab to move to the next column (Value
    column).  Now input 20000 and press E to save the entry.
11. You should then freeze the value of the money so that the value cannot
    be modified by the program.  This is done by pressing the F key.
12. Return to the game and you should now have an infinite amount of money.



Command Line Options
--------------------

Multiple command line options can be used simultaneously
(i.e. GWSHARE /b=12 /sx /p=book).

The following are the command line options available for Game Wizard 32:

Basic Command Line Options
--------------------------

/b=#	Set screen blanking delay in minutes, range: 1 - 60.
	i.e. to set the screen blanking delay to 10 minutes: GWSHARE /b=10

/k=N	Use a different activation key.  N is the new KEYNAME.
	i.e. to change the activation key to F1 use: GWSHARE /k=f1

	      KEYNAME			Actual Key
              -------                   ----------
	      RSHIFT			Right Shift
	      GMINUS			Grey Minus (on Num. pad)
	      GPLUS			Grey Plus (on Num. pad)
	      CTRL			Right or left Ctrl
	      ALT                       Right or left Alt
	      TAB                       Tab
	      F1			F1
	      F2                        F2
	      F3                        F3
	      F4                        F4



 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 15 -                    Reference Guide



	      F5                        F5
	      F6                        F6
	      F7                        F7
	      F8                        F8
	      F9                        F9
	      F10                       F10

/p=	Set a new password for boss screen. The maximum length is 8
        characters.
	i.e. to set the password to cloud use: GWSHARE /p=cloud

/sN	Set swapping to (d)isk, (e)ms, or (x)ms. Where N is d,e or x
	i.e. to swap to disk use: GWSHARE /sd

/t	This option prevents the system time from being updated while inside
	Game Wizard 32 (necessary for some games).

/u	This option will remove Game Wizard 32 from memory.  This is only
	possible if no other TSR programs are loaded after Game Wizard 32.

/vN     Set video swapping to (f)ast or (s)low.  Where N is f or s.
        If you experience video problems, try the alternate option.
	i.e. to use slow video swapping use: GWSHARE /vs



Advanced Command Line Options
-----------------------------

/altvesa    If this command switch is used, Game Wizard 32 will use an
	    alternate VESA SVGA swapping method.  This option should be
	    used only when the SVGA card is not 100% VESA compatible.
	    i.e. to enable alternate SVGA swapping use : GWSHARE /altvesa

/comirq	    This option is used to set the IRQ used by the Serial
	    communcations port.  This value will be saved in the
	    configuration file.
	    i.e. to enable support for IRQ 3 use: GWSHARE /comirq=3

/delay	    This option sets a new delay factor for the game playing speed
	    in case it wasn't calculated properly when Game Wizard 32 was
	    initially installed.  This value will be saved in the
	    configuration file.  The following are suitable delay factors
            for different systems:

                   System		     Delay Factor
                   ------                    ------------
		   386-25			 336
		   486-33			1344
		   486-66                       3584
		   Pentium-75			9234

/fillumb    This option is used to fill the upper memory region so that
	    the save/load feature will work correctly in certain games.




 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 16 -                    Reference Guide



/gus	    This option is used to set the port used by the Gravis
	    Ultrasound compatible card in case Game Wizard 32 is unable to
	    detect it properly.  This value will be saved in the
	    configuration file.
	    i.e. to set the gus port to 220 use: GWSHARE /gus=220

/i=#	    Alternate interrupt setting, range: 1 - 9.
	    i.e. to change the alternate interrupt setting to 5 use:
	    GWSHARE /i=5

/install    This option allows Game Wizard 32 to be installed regardless
	    of whether or not it is already in memory.

/midi	    This option is used to set the port used by the MIDI compatible
	    card.  You must use this command line if you wish to enable
	    MIDI support since Game Wizard 32 will not automatically detect
	    the address of your MIDI sound card.  Setting the port address
	    to zero will disable MIDI support.  This value will be saved in
	    the configuration file.
	    i.e. to set the midi port to 330 use: GWSHARE /midi=330

/mouse	    This option will enable the activation of Game Wizard 32 by
	    simultaneously pressing the LEFT and RIGHT mouse buttons.  If
	    this option is ON, Game Wizard 32 can be activated by pressing
	    the LEFT and RIGHT mouse buttons.  If this options is OFF, Game
	    Wizard 32 cannot be activated through the mouse.  This value
	    will be saved in the configuration file.
	    i.e. to activate Game Wizar 32 using the mouse use:
	    GWSHARE /mouse=on

/recalc	    This option is used to recalculate a new delay factor.  This
	    may be necessary when running different memory managers.

/sbirq	    This option is used to set the IRQ used by the Sound Blaster
	    compatible card in case Game Wizard 32 is unable to detect it
	    properly.  This value will be saved in the configuration file.
	    i.e. to set the Sound Blaster IRQ to 7 use: GWSHARE /sbirq=7

/sbport	    This option is used to set the port used by the Sound Blaster
	    compatible card in case Game Wizard 32 is unable to detect it
	    properly.  This value will be saved in the configuration file.
	    i.e. to set the Sound Blaster Port to 220 use:
	    GWSHARE /sbport=220

/trident=N  This option is used to correct the hardware bugs found in
	    certain Trident VGA cards.  This option should be used when
	    the top of the game screen becomes corrupted when using Game
	    Wizard 32.  The N can be ON or OFF.  Once the /trident=on
	    command line option has been used, Game Wizard 32 will
	    configure itself to use this option permanently.  If you wish
	    to disable this feature you must use the /trident=off command
	    line option.
	    i.e. to enable Trident bug fix mode use: GWSHARE /trident=on





 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 17 -                    Reference Guide



/x	    Enhanced DOS Extender support.  This may be necessary for
	    certain programs. You must quickly press the activation key
	    twice in order to activate Game Wizard 32 under this option.
	    The default activation key under this method is LEFT SHIFT.



Questions & Answers
-------------------

Q  Why do some games crash when I run them while Game Wizard 32 is resident
   in memory?

A  You may need to use the /x option when running some of the DOS Extender
   based games.  If you are experiencing problems with Game Wizard 32 under
   some DOS Extender based games without the /x command line option.  Try
   the following:

   1. Run the game under HIMEM.SYS.
   2. Disable sound/music within the game.
   3. Use the /mouse command line option.

Q  Why do I experience problems activating Game Wizard 32?

A  If you are using NETROOM, please make sure that you don't have the NOV8
   switch on the NETROOM device driver (RM386.EXE) line in your CONFIG.SYS.
   If you are using the Stealth option under QEMM or the Cloaking feature
   under NETROOM, you may experience problems within certain games and with
   Game Wizard 32.  To solve these problems, you should disable the above
   mentioned features in the memory managers.

Q  Why are the game screens corrupted after activating Game Wizard 32 and
   returning to a SUPER VGA game or application?

A  A VESA driver must be loaded PRIOR to running Game Wizard 32 if you wish
   to use it in SVGA programs.  If Game Wizard 32 detects a VESA driver
   when it is first installed, the message "Super VGA (VESA present)" is
   displayed for the Video Adapter Type, and VESA SuperVGA BIOS extensions
   will be used for its functions.  If your screen is corrupted even though
   the VESA driver was loaded prior to running Game Wizard 32, use the
   command line option /altvesa.  This is due to the fact that certain VESA
   drivers are not 100% VESA compatible.

Q  Why are my game screens corrupted after I return from Game Wizard 32?

A  Your video card may not support the new fast video swapping method.
   Try setting the video swapping speed to slow with the /vs command
   line option.

Q  Why are the screens corrupted when running Game Wizard 32?

A  Some poorly designed or older EMS Managers do not allow direct transfers
   to and from video memory.  This problem can be solved by either upgrading
   your existing EMS manager or by using the /sd or /sx command option
   within Game Wizard 32.



 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 18 -                    Reference Guide



Q  I have a Trident graphics card.  Why does the screen sometimes become
   corrupted when using Game Wizard 32?

A  Some of the Trident VGA cards are not 100% VGA compatible on both the
   hardware and BIOS levels.  We have successfully resolved most of these
   incompatibility problems but a few might still exist.  If the game screen
   becomes corrupted when using Game Wizard 32, try using the /trident=on
   command line option.  Refer to the Advanced Command Line Options section
   of the manual for more detailed information.

Q  I have searched for a particular item in a game but have been unable to
   find it?

A  There are three different search methods in Game Wizard 32.  Each is
   designed to search for a particular type of data.  If the incorrect
   search method is used, Game Wizard 32 will not be able to find the item.
   In addition, make sure that the appropriate memory ranges are selected
   for the search.

Q  I have a Sound Blaster compatible card, why is Game Wizard 32 unable to
   detect it?

A  Your card may not be 100% compatible with the Sound Blaster, or your
   sound card may be using a non-standard port or IRQ.  This problem can be
   solved by using one of the following command line options: /sbport or
   /sbirq.

Q  How do I get the Gravis Ultrasound to run with Game Wizard 32?

A  For the Gravis Ultrasound to function properly with Game Wizard 32, the
   SBOS driver or any other relevant sound driver for the Gravis Ultrasound
   must be loaded prior to running Game Wizard 32.  You may also use the
   command line option /gus to specify the Gravis Ultrasound's port address.

Q  I copied an installed version of Game Wizard 32 to a friend's computer,
   but it does not seem to work at all.  Why?

A  When Game Wizard 32 is installed, it configures itself to run at optimum
   performance on that particular computer.  Changing hardware
   configurations without reinstalling Game Wizard 32 will cause it to
   behave erratically.  Game Wizard 32 should only be installed from the
   distributed package.

Q  Why do I get the following message "Error: VM86 mode without VCPI"?

A  This error is usually caused by a memory manager that has had its EMS
   services disabled.  To solve this problem, enable the EMS services by
   referring to the manual that was supplied with your memory manager.  If
   the EMS services cannot be enabled, removing the memory manager will also
   solve this problem.

Q  Why can't I use a table that I copied from a friend of mine?

A  Some tables may not work on other computers if they use different game
   configurations.  If you are running the VGA version of a game while your
   friend is running the SVGA version, the game might use two separate
   executable files or different memory allocation schemes.

 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 19 -                    Reference Guide



Q  I saved some tables on my computer and loaded them at a later date,
   why don't they work?

A  Tables should only be saved/loaded within the game.  If the table is
   NOT saved inside the game, it may not function correctly when loaded.
   This is because the table is calculated based on criteria within that
   particular game when loaded.

Q  What is the purpose of the Alternate Interrupt Settings?

A  Certain programs/drivers may conflict with the default interrupts used
   by Game Wizard 32.  If Game Wizard 32 crashes upon installation, use a
   different interrupt setting or the /x option to solve this problem.
   The different setting can only be determined by trial and error.

Q  Why can Game Wizard 32 only edit memory after a certain address?

A  Game Wizard 32 will not allow the user to edit memory regions that were
   allocated prior to it becoming resident in memory.  This is to eliminate
   potential problems that may be caused by editing DOS/DRIVERS/TSRs and
   other critical memory regions.

Q  Why can't I search for the same number twice consecutively?

A  This will only occur when you try to enter the same value in the first
   and second searches.  This is done in order to increase the speed of
   the search process.

Q  Why doesn't Game Wizard 32 automatically enter the Selected Address
   in the Address column?

A  Game Wizard 32 will only automatically enter the Selected Address in the
   Address column if the address is 00000000.  You may either clear the
   entry before editing it or use Ctrl-S when in editing mode to input the
   new Selected Address into the Address column.

Q  Why can't I adjust the speed of the program?

A  Make sure you use the cursor keys to adjust the speed index and then
   press the Enter key to make it effective.  This is not guaranteed to
   work with all games, since it depends on how the game was programmed.
   Some games were designed to run at a specific speed.  Altering their
   speed may cause them to crash or behave erratically.

Q  Why doesn't Game Wizard 32 run under MS Windows Shell?

A  Due to the fact that Game Wizard 32 directly accesses the same hardware
   used by multitasking software, it is incompatible with MS Windows as
   well as OS/2, DESQview and Windows NT.









 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 20 -                    Reference Guide



Q  How do I edit a large number in memory?

A  Editing a large number in memory may require you to select a different
   memory address size.  The following table contains a list of ranges.

          	  	  0 - 255		BYTE
                        0 - 65,535		WORD
                     0 - 2,147,483,647		DWORD

Q  Why won't certain games detect my MIDI card after activating Game
   Wizard 32?

A  This occurs when Game Wizard 32 accesses the MIDI port when it is in a
   uninitialized state.  This problem can be solved by either turning off
   the MIDI option or using the Crash to DOS option within Game Wizard 32
   and then restarting the game.

Q  Why should I use the /mouse option to activate Game Wizard 32?

A  Some games disable the keyboard and use only the mouse or joystick for
   input.  When this is done, Game Wizard 32 cannot be activated by
   pressing the hotkey.  Under these circumstances, use the /mouse option
   and activate Game Wizard 32 by pressing the LEFT and RIGHT mouse buttons
   simultaneously.

Q  How do I prevent certain multi-player modem games from crashing after
   Game Wizard 32 has been activated?

A  The /comirq option can be used to select the IRQ that your modem is
   using.  Game Wizard 32 will use this information to monitor and
   re-establish the modem's data flow when returning to the current game.



























 Game Wizard 32 Shareware         - 21 -                    Reference Guide
