1.                Hard Disk Preparation program 4.05
                  KFH Assocaites, (c)  1985, 1986, 1987
                  2771, Middleborough
                  San Jose, CA 95132

                   FOR IBM PC   AND  XT & COMPATIBLES
                   AT needs HDPREPAT.exe
                         DOS 2.x/3.x
                   ALSO  XEBEC 1210 
                         DTC   5150  
                         ADAPTEC 2002A
                         W DIGITAL 1002-WX2 (AND Cobra auto config board)
                         ETC. PC CONTROLLER BOARDS

                     If you think the program is useful  to you,
                     $35.00 donation to    H. King   at above
                     address will register for updating service


 Rev 4.00 add file input and drive types
 Rev 4.01 correct the sector/trk handling for Adaptec 2070 
 Rev 4.02 
          a.  Add Fdisk setup option 
          b.  Add defect table file save option
        * c.  Change the drive designation from 0/1 to 1/2
          d.  When drive is selected for primary format or Fdisk,
              the LED of the selected drive is activated for verification.
 Rev 4.03 
          a.  Option 9 - Add drive type 28,29,30 for SyQuest cartridge drive on 
              Xebec 1210C as special case.          
          b.  Xebec 1210c may need to use option 9 before the option 
              2 and 3 if the drive has never been primary formatted 
              by Xebec 1210. (This may need further verification).
          c.  Option 9 - input parameter has additional Xebec 1210C option.
          d.  Modify LED verification to handle certain controllers which 
              must be primary formatted beforehand.
          e.  Generate error mesaage if primary format fails.
  Rev 4.04 
              not released
  Rev 4.05 
          a.  Support WD auto configuration cobra boards




2.  The program READ in the hard disk drive parameters from the
    controller to determine the available number of heads and cylinders
    for each attached drive. This assumes the controller follows the IBM BIO
    convention. Otherwise, the program defaults to 2 head and 100
    cylinders for each drive. When this happens, the controller usually
    has problem. You can use option 9 to change the settings. However,
    the change is only temporary since the drive parameters are in the 
    controller ROM. If you have an Adaptec controller, the parameter will 
    be recorded to disk drive and later still can be recognized by the 
    DOS. Western Digital's Cobra board is not supported at this time.
 
    If adaptec or WD auto configuration controller is used, use option
    9 to set drive parameters before use format options.


3.  Hard disk preparation uses the controller default parameters in the
    BIOS unless it is overwritten by option 9.

Instructions:

The program is manual driven and self explanatory. The following is a
summary.

Options:

1. Select the drive to be operated on. Drive 0 is the first hard disk
   drive attached to the controller (usually the C:), Drive 1 is the
   second one (usually the D:).

2. Perform the controller primary FORMAT of the specified drive by option 1.
   See option 3. Run FDISK and Dos FORMAT after this step.
   Bad track locations can be input at this step and the program
   shall use the input to mark the bad ones accordingly. Option
   is allowed to enter the file name that contains the defect track
   location table. In this defect table file, each record has two 
   numbers. The first number is the head number and the second one 
   is the track (cylinder) location.  

3. Perform the controller primary FORMAT of the specified drive by option 1
   and scan the disk for bad tracks and mark them bad. Run FDISK and
   DOS FORMAT after this step. This option 3 is preferred to option 2.
   In the begining of this step, you can enter the bad tracks if you
   already know them.  This step marks  any bad track found, plus
   the ones you entered,  at the end of the process. As in the option 2,
   the defect table file name can be used. 

4. Move the head to track 0 for the specified drive.

5. Exit this program.

6. Set the interleave number for the controller primary FORMAT. The default is
   6 which is used by IBM PC/XT. Do not use other number unless you
   have enough knowedge on the controller. Adaptec controller can use
   interleave 2. Western Digital controller can use 3.

7. If you know a specific track and head location is bad, you can use
   this option to mark the track bad. Use DOS FDISK AND FORMAT after
   this step.

   Option allows the program to scan the drive and lists tracks that
   already marked bad.

8. If you want to remark a bad track to reuse the track, you can use this
   option. This option can not physically correct the defect track.

   Option allows the program to scan the drive and lists tracks that
   already marked bad.

9. Use this option to define the number of heads and cylinders for each
   drive for this program to use. This option   does  overwrite
   the controller defined parameter and affect the controller primary FORMAT
   operation. The BIOS parameters are not affected. Warning: The DOS
   FORMAT uses BIOS parameters.

   However, the ADAPTEC 20xx  is an exception, the overwrite parameters
   are recognized by DOS Fdisk and Format programs after re-boot.

   This option has a table of predefined drive parameters. You can select
   a drive type from the table or input your own parameters.
   
** When you have adaptec or western digital auto config controller,
   You must use this option first.

A. The same operation as the option 3, except during the verify process
   more data patterns are used. The process can take twice longer then
   the option 3. Usually, the option 3 is good enough.

B. This Fdisk option can apply to both hard disk drives. Be careful !!
   The Fdisk set-up is equivalent to the DOS Fdisk. After this Fdisk
   set-up, the system will automatically reboot. You can proceed to 
   do DOS format after the reboot. 

   The option is manu driven.

Note:

   At option 2,3,7 and 8, head and track location input feature allows the
   number entering easier and can be edited later. After the completion of
   input process, the screen shall display the entered bad tracks information.
   Once the total track  location display is on, you can use the cursor key to
   move the pointer (reversed video) to different line/column and use command
   to change (C),  remove (R), Re-enter every thing (N), go ahead to
   proceed (Y). The editing options are displayed at the bottom of the
   screen for reference.  (F) saves to the defect table information that
   you entered to a file named by you and can be call back later.


   If a new item need to be added, use cursor key to move the pointer
   to a location that does not have any entry, hit "C" - change, head
   number and cylinder number can then be added.
