1.            AT  HARD DISK PREPARATION program 1.0
                  KFH ASSOCIATES,           1985
                  2771, Middleborough
                  SAN JOSE, CA 95132

                   FOR IBM AT & COMPATIBLES
                   PC and XT needs HDPREP.exe
                         DOS 2.0/2.1/3.0/3.1

                  ** If you think the program is useful  to you,
                     $35.00 donation to    H. King   at above
                     address will register for updating service


2.  The program READ in the hard disk drive parameters from the
    controller to determine the available number of heads and cylinders
    for each attached drive, if the controller follows the IBM BIO
    convention. Otherwise, the program defaults to 2 head and 100
    cylinders for each drive. When this happens, the controller usually
    has problem.


3.  Hard disk preparation uses the controller default parameters in the
    BIOS.

Instructions:

The program is manual driven and self explanatory. The following is a
summary.

Options:

1. Select the drive to be operated on. Drive 0 is the first hard disk
   drive attached to the controller (usually the C:), Drive 1 is the
   second one (usually the D:).

2. Perform the controller FORMAT of the specified drive by option 1.
   See option 3. Run FDISK and Dos FORMAT after this step.
   Bad track locations can be input at this step and the program
   will use the input to mark the bad ones accordingly.

3. Perform the controller FORMAT of the specified drive by option 1
   and scan the disk for bad tracks and mark them bad. Run FDISK and
   DOS FORMAT after this step. This option 3 is preferred to option 2.
   In the begining of this step, you can enter the bad tracks if you
   already know them.  This step marks  any bad track found,
   the ones you entered,  at the end of the process.

4. Move the head to track 0 for the specified drive.

5. Exit this program.

6. Set the interleave number for the controller FORMAT. The default is
   6 which is used by IBM PC/XT. Do not use other number unless you
   have enough knowedge on the controller. Adaptec controller can use
   interleave 2.

7. If you know a specific track and head location is bad, you can use
   this option to mark the track bad. Use DOS FDISK AND FORMAT after
   this step.

8. If you want to remark a bad track to reuse the track, you can use this
   option. This option can not physically correct the defect track.

9. The same operation as the option 3, except during the verify process
   more data patterns are used. The process can take twice longer then
   the option 3. Usually, the option 3 is good enough.

