Program:
              ICE.COM Intrusion Contermeasure Electronics
              COM file Security Program Version 1.00
              Copyright 1988 by Keith P. Graham

Contact:
              Keith P. Graham c/o PC-Rockland BBS (914) 353-2157

Description:
              ICE is a program which scramples and compresses
              COM files (not EXE files) yet allows them to be
              fully functional. The program makes it difficult to
              alter the orginal program and it has the added
              bonus of compressing COM files without detracting
              from their usefulness. ICEd COM files still run
              as they did before except that they are usually
              smaller and disk load times are shorter.
              ICE offers protection agains viruses in that
              ICE can scramble COMMAND.COM and make it difficult
              for viruses to attach themselves to the scramble
              program.


Usage:
              The format of the ICE command is:

                  ICE file.COM encryption-key

              file is the name of a COM file to ICE and
              encryption key is a string of numbers and/or
              letters that will help make your scramble
              unique.

              ICE will compress and scramble the com file and
              replace the original. It is important to have a
              backup of the original COM file in case ICE screws
              up somehow. I have tested ICE, but it is possible to
              screw anything up.

Disclaimer:
             I have written an ICE BREAKER for ICEd programs and
             I am sure that any good hacker could also figure it out
             after a while. No software resource can be protected
             entirely by software. I can only guarantee that
             ICE makes COM file safer, not 100% safe.

License:
             ICE remains the property of Keith P. Graham and is
             not for sale, but feel free to share it with you friends
             as long as no fee is associated with the copying of
             ICE or distribution of ICE other than nominal disk
             copy or access charges.

Other Stuff:
             If you are interested in ICE and ICEBREAKERS read
             Neuromancer by William Gibson available at you local
             bookstore's SF department. Don't miss this one!


