












                     P O T A S S I U M   H Y D R O X I D E

                                     (KOH)

                             Disk Encryption System

                        Written by "The King of Hearts"




                    The executable program KOH.COM and this
                    document file KOH.DOC may be distributed
                     for free. Please spread them all over
                              the known universe!





                        Complete source, or an original
                      distribution disk is available from:

                       American Eagle Publications, Inc.
                                 P.O. Box 41401
                                Tucson, AZ 85717





                See the order form at the end of this document.

                   (C) 1993 American Eagle Publications, Inc.



                       ---------------------------------
                   * This software was developed in MEXICO *

           WARNING: Certain entities who claim civil authority in the
          United States consider this to be an export-controlled item
         due to the strong cryptography implemented therein. We do not
         intend to defy them though their claims to said authority are
               somewhat dubious in view of their disdain for the
           constitution. This matter you must consider for yourself.
                        -------------------------------



                                                                          3










         INDEX
         =====



             CHAPTER                                PAGE

         1.  Warning                                   5
         2.  How KOH Works                             6
         3.  Installation                              7
              Floppy Disk Installation                 7
              Hard Disk Installation                   8
         4.  Speed Considerations                     12
         5.  IDEA-Based Cryptography                  13
         6.  Hotkeys                                  16
         7.  System Backup                            18
         8.  How do I . . . ?                         21
         9.  If you have problems                     23
         10. Order Information                        25



                                                                   5



         1. WARNING
         ==========

         This disk encryption system employs a state-of-the-art
         encryption algorithm called IDEA in conjunction with a
         sophisticated low-level disk intercept to secure your
         IBM compatible personal computer system from intrusion.

         PLEASE READ THESE INSTRUCTIONS COMPLETELY BEFORE INSTALLING
         THIS PROGRAM ON YOUR COMPUTER SYSTEM.

         If you do not, you could render all of the data in your
         system PERMANENTLY INACCESSIBLE WITHOUT REMEDY!

         Secondly, improper installation could leave your computer
         system vulnerable to cryto-analytic attack. Although KOH uses
         a very good cryptographic algorithm, YOU have a part to play
         in making sure you are secure. This manual will tell you how.

         In short, take your time, read the manual, and do it right
         and you'll be glad you did!



   6



         2. HOW KOH WORKS
         ================

         Potassium Hydroxide is an on-the-fly disk encryption program.
         When you install it, it will encrypt your hard disk (and
         floppies) so that all of the information on it will look like
         jibberish without the corresponding decryption in place, and
         the proper password entered when you start the computer.

         KOH hides itself in a small space on your hard disk that is
         normally never used, and it is the very first thing loaded
         from disk when you turn your computer on. It installs itself
         in your computer's memory, and then asks you for a pass
         phrase. If you enter the wrong thing, your disk still looks
         like jibberish.

         Once KOH is installed in memory, it monitors all attempts to
         access the disks in your system. Everything that is written
         to disk is encrypted by KOH, and everything read from disk
         into memory is decrypted. Nothing is ever stored to disk in
         an unencrypted form as long as KOH is in the system. Thus, if
         you are in a situation where you have a security problem, all
         you have to do is turn your computer off, or hit the reset
         button, and everything is instantly locked out of the reach
         of anyone who doesn't know your pass phrase.

         Functionally, KOH works in a manner similar to a computer
         virus. It uses "stealth" technology developed by computer
         virus writers to hide itself in your computer system's memory
         and on its disks. Likewise, it uses technology first
         developed by virus writers to help you keep all of your work
         encrypted without having to remember to do all the
         housekeeping yourself. KOH differs from a virus in that it is
         friendly. It doesn't just come along and do something nasty
         whether you want it to or not. You remain in control, and KOH
         does an important job for you!

         This virus technology actually makes KOH a much more
         effective program than some other commercial programs. For
         example, some programs implement encryption using a device
         driver. This, however, makes it impossible to encrypt the
         boot-up code, and part of the directory structure. Others
         force you to set up a separate partition on your hard disk,
         etc., etc. By hiding like a virus, KOH allows you to encrypt
         EVERYTHING.



                                                                        7



         3. INSTALLATION
         ===============

         IMPORTANT: Read this section through once from start to
         finish and then go through it again, step by step, while
         doing what it says.

         A. Floppy Disk Installation
         ---------------------------

         There are two ways to put an active copy of KOH on a floppy
         disk. The first way we will discuss is to use the KOH.COM
         program, provided with this DOC file.

         To create a disk encrypted with KOH, you should first create
         a bootable floppy of the type used in your A: drive. To do
         this, use the command

                FORMAT A: /S /U

         to format the disk in drive A: and put the system files on
         it, so that it can be booted. The /U calls for an
         unconditional format, which just wipes out any pre-existing
         data on that disk. Once you've done this, simply run the KOH
         program as

                KOH A:

         When you run KOH, you will be prompted for a pass phrase for
         that floppy disk. You should always pick a good pass phrase.
         A bad one will seriously compromise security in your system.
         If somebody (or somebody's computer) can guess your password,
         then you're wide open. See the discussion of pass phrases
         below, IDEA-Based Cryptography.

         After you enter a pass phrase, KOH will proceed to encrypt
         this disk and install itself. The process takes a minute or
         two. When complete, KOH will inform you that is is done, and
         you will find yourself back at the prompt. If you attempt to
         do a directory of that floppy now, it will look like pure
         gibberish.

         Now, if you have a floppy-only computer system, or if you
         don't want KOH on the hard disk, you can boot from your newly
         created floppy disk. KOH will load itself into memory and
         ask you for a pass phrase. Enter the pass phrase, and your
         disk will proceed to boot. If you do a directory on it,
         you'll see everything there just like you would expect, with
         no jibberish. KOH is resident in memory, decrypting the
         information on that disk as it is loaded into your computer's
         memory. You can turn your computer off at any time, and your
         disk will be completely safe from prying eyes.



    8



         When KOH is resident in memory (loaded by booting off a disk
         on which it is installed), you can encrypt new disks with no
         trouble at all. All you have to do is do a directory on a
         disk, and KOH will automatically encrypt it with the same
         password you entered when you started up, and put the
         decryption routines on it. For example, if you put a diskette
         in your B: drive and type

                DIR B:

         you won't get the directory immediately, like you usually do.
         KOH will sense an unencrypted disk in that drive, and encrypt
         it before anything else happens. When KOH is done encrypting,
         you'll get the directory display just like you usually do,
         but now that disk is encrypted. Thus, once you have your
         first encrypted disk, making more is very easy.

         If you need to access a diskette WITHOUT automatically
         encrypting it (perhaps you are copying a few files from a
         friend, and you want to give his disk back), you can easily
         turn the auto-migrate feature off by using the hot-key
         Ctrl-Alt-O (letter o). When you press this three-key
         combination (just like you use Ctrl-Alt-Del to reboot), your
         computer will beep and a minus sign "-" will be displayed on
         the screen to tell you that auto-migrate is off. Then you can
         access floppy disks, and KOH will not attempt to encrypt
         them. To turn the auto-migrate feature back on, press
         Ctrl-Alt-O again. Your computer will beep and a plus sign "+"
         will be displayed to indicate that auto-migrate is on. You
         can read more about this feature in the section on Hotkeys.

         B. Hard Disk Installation
         -------------------------

         To install KOH on your hard disk, the first thing you must do
         is install it on a floppy disk. Use the instructions above to
         do that before proceeding with installation on your hard
         disk.

         Backing Up
         ----------

         Once you have made a bootable floppy disk with KOH on it,
         then you are ready to install it on your hard disk.

         BEFORE YOU INSTALL ON YOUR HARD DISK, YOU MUST BACK UP YOUR
         COMPUTER!!!

         Encrypting your disk is a sensitive process. If the power
         were to fail, or if something went wrong half-way through the
         process, you could conceivably lose everything you have
         stored on your computer. Thus, before you proceed, you must
         back up your computer. DO IT NOW. Don't take the chance that
         everything will go fine, because you just never can tell.



                                                                        9



         However, obviously, if you make a backup of your computer
         now, that backup won't be encrypted. This is a potential
         security breach. There are a couple ways to deal with it,
         depending on how your computer is configured. I'm going to
         assume you haven't been backing up your data regularly,
         because most people don't. So first a few instructions on
         making a proper backup when using KOH.

         The only way to back up your computer and allow KOH to
         encrypt the backup for you is to back up onto floppy disks
         using a program that does not use a non-standard disk format.
         The standard DOS BACKUP utility works fine, as do compression
         programs like PKZIP and ARJ, which allow for multi-volume
         processing. Get a bunch of floppies, and back up now, before
         anything is encrypted. You can encrypt this backup later, if
         you want to. For more information about backing up with KOH
         in your computer, see the section System Backup in this manual.

         Putting KOH on your Hard Disk
         -----------------------------

         Once backup is complete, you are ready to move KOH to your
         hard disk. To install KOH, first put the floppy which has KOH
         on it in the A: drive and reboot your computer. The computer
         will access the A: drive first, and load KOH into memory. At
         this point, KOH will ask you:

         KOH-Migrate to hard drive on this computer (please backup)?

         At first, answer "N" for no. This is a preliminary test.
         First you want to see if your KOH-ed floppy will work. Then you
         will be asked for a pass phrase. Enter the pass phrase you
         chose for the disk when you made it. Next, the disk should
         boot, and you should have an A: prompt. You should be able to
         do a directory of the hard disk, etc., without problems.

         If, rather than booting up, you get an error to the effect of
         "Non-system disk" then you may have entered the wrong
         pass phrase, so press Ctrl-Alt-Delete and try again.

         After successfully booting your floppy under KOH, you can do
         a directory of it, and you will see everything that was on it
         just like it was before you encrypted. Now we're ready to
         install on the hard disk. Press Ctrl-Alt-Delete and allow the
         computer to boot from the floppy again. Now, when it asks you
         about migrating to the hard drive, answer "Y" for yes. Again,
         you will be asked for a password. You don't really need to
         enter it, because once it's asked, KOH is already on your
         hard disk. So you can just press Ctrl-Alt-Delete again, and
         take the floppy out of the A: drive so your system will boot
         from the hard disk.



    10



         When KOH loads from the hard drive, it will ask if you want to
         encrypt your data now. Again, it's probably a good idea to
         test your disk out and answer this question "N" for no. Your
         computer should then proceed to boot and operate normally.

         The Secret Key
         --------------

         After you've seen that your computer is still working, it is
         time to encrypt. Press Ctrl-Alt-Delete once more, and when
         you're asked if you want to encrypt, answer "Y" for yes. KOH
         will then ask you to start pressing keys. This is a critical
         part of generating a good encryption key, and it's important
         not to slacken up here and try to rush the process. You'll
         have to press about 128 keys to get through this part. To do
         it right will take a few minutes. CHOOSE KEYS ON YOUR
         KEYBOARD COMPLETELY AT RANDOM AND PRESS THEM SLOWLY. Use all
         of the keys on your keyboard too. If you try to rush this,
         you're only compromising the security of the random key which
         is being generated, and it is your own loss. Once the
         computer has enough keystrokes, it will beep and ask you to
         press the ESC key to continue.

         After you press ESC, you will be asked for two pass phrases.
         One is for the hard disk and one is for your floppy disks.

         The Hard Disk Pass Phrase
         -------------------------

         Chose a hard disk pass phrase carefully. It needs to be
         something that cannot be easily guessed, yet something you
         can remember, and it can be any combination of keystrokes up
         to 128 characters. This pass phrase is what you will enter
         into the computer every time you turn it on from now on.
         See IDEA-Based Cryptography for more information on picking a
         good pass phrase.

         The Floppy Disk Pass Phrase
         ---------------------------

         The pass phrase for the floppy disk will be completely
         invisible after you enter it. It is stored (encrypted) on
         your hard disk in a special area, and you will not normally
         need to enter it. However, since you are liable not to use it
         for long periods of time, make sure it is something you will
         remember--or save it somewhere on your *encrypted* hard disk.
         You will need it if you boot off of an encrypted floppy, or
         wish to access that floppy from another machine.

         After you have entered both pass phrases, KOH will proceed to
         encrypt your hard disk. This is where you have to just kick
         back and wait, as the process can take anywhere from 20
         minutes to several hours, depending on how big your hard disk



                                                                        11



         is, and how fast your computer is. Allocate plenty of time to
         encrypt, and do not turn the computer off before it finishes
         the job and tells you so. If you do, chances are a major
         portion of the data on your hard disk will be lost forever!
         That's why you want to back up, too. You never know when the
         electric company might shut down your computer for you. You
         have been warned!!

         Note: You can change both the hard disk and floppy disk
         pass phrases at a moment's notice by pressing Ctrl-Alt-K,
         preferably from the DOS prompt. Then you will be asked to
         enter new pass phrases. See Hotkeys for more information.

         Note that KOH only encrypts the presently-active partition on
         your physical hard disk. Thus, if you have your computer set
         up with two logical drives, C: and D:, only the C: drive will
         be encrypted. The D: drive will not get encrypted. If you
         want everything encrypted, then you must set your hard disk
         up with a single partition if it is not already. (Use the
         FDISK program, supplied with DOS, to determine how many
         partitions you have if you do not know.)

         At this point KOH is completely installed on your hard disk.
         The next time you start your computer, you will be prompted
         for a pass phrase. Enter it right, and your computer
         will start right up. Enter it wrong, and you cannot get in!

         NOTE: If you are installing on a SCSI drive, read the
         section in "What To Do If You Have Problems" concerning SCSI's
         before you install. That will help you to avoid surprises
         with SCSI's, which can be a bit more complex than ordinary
         drives.



    12



         4. SPEED CONSIDERATIONS
         =======================

         KOH requires a considerable amount of overhead to do
         encryption and decryption on the fly. You are bound to notice
         a slow-down in disk accesses after you install KOH. That is
         always something that's hard to get used to. These are the
         breaks of using on the fly encryption, and the better your
         encryption algorithm, the more overhead it takes.

         To minimize the impact of the slowdown, I recommend two
         things:

         (1) Install a disk cache in memory--as big as you can afford.
         A caching controller will not do the job, because that cache
         lives on the other side of KOH. You need just an ordinary
         cache that resides in system memory, preferably one that
         caches reads and writes. (The standard MS-DOS cache works
         just fine.) This will keep data cached in an unencrypted
         state so that accessing it does not require calling IDEA. You
         may want to install some more memory so you can make your
         disk cache bigger.

         (2) Upgrade your processor, if you can afford it. The speedup
         from the new processor will offset the slowdown from KOH, and
         you'll be happier. For example, if you upgrade from a 386SX-
         16 to a 486SX-25, you probably won't even notice the
         slowdown, and it's not THAT expensive.

         If you cannot afford the above solutions and you still can't
         live with a slower system, there is one other possibility,
         though it is not as secure. You can partition your disk with
         a logical drive. For example, if you have an 80 megabyte
         drive, create a 20 megabyte partition, and make it your C:
         drive, and create a 60 megabyte partition and make it your D:
         drive. Now, put all of your programs, and data that is not
         sensitive on your D: drive, and put all of your sensitive
         data on the C: drive. Then install KOH. KOH will encrypt the
         C: drive, but leave the D: drive alone. This means that your
         D: drive will be as fast as it was before, and your C: drive
         will be slowed down by the encryption routines. All your
         programs, etc., will load real fast. The problem here is that
         you need to make sure you don't put sensitive data on your D:
         drive. Don't ever put it there. Remember that erasing files
         doesn't really erase the information. And don't let your
         programs create temporary files on your D: drive with
         sensitive information in them either. (And that's easier said
         than done!!) As I said, this is not really a very good
         option, but it can be done.



                                                                         13



         5. IDEA-BASED CRYPTOGRAPHY
         ==========================

         IDEA stands for International Data Encryption Algorithm. It
         was developed in the 1980's in europe as an alternative to
         the US government developed DES (Data Encryption Standard)
         algorithm.

         Most good commercial encryption programs use DES at present.
         DES has been proven to be a pretty good algorithm by the
         academic crypto community, however quite a few people are
         suspicious about it because it was developed by the US
         government and the National Security Agency. Although perhaps
         quite suitable for civilian use 99.99% of the time, there is
         always that lurking suspicion that the NSA knows how to crack
         it. Additionally, DES uses a 56 bit key (7 byte). As
         computers become more and more powerful, it is possible that
         a brute-force attack against DES would be possible at a
         reasonable cost. By a brute-force attack, I mean you just set
         up a computer to try every possible 7 byte key until you get
         the right one. That could be only a few years away, as
         computer technology is improving so rapidly.

         IDEA offers an alternative. Developed by the academic
         community, it does not carry with it the suspicions of an
         algorithm developed by a super-secret government agency. It
         has proved to be a good algorithm without inherent
         weaknesses. However, IDEA is still rather young--much younger
         than DES. Thus, it is possible that someone could find a
         weakness and prove it's not so good after all. That has not
         happened to date, and it's a calculated risk you have to take.
         Also, the IDEA employs a 128 bit key (16 byte). This larger
         key makes a brute-force attach MUCH more difficult, and
         removes it from the realm of possibility for a long time to
         come.

         The development team felt the IDEA offered the best security
         at present of any known algorithm, for the purposes we have
         in mind for KOH, and that includes keeping your private
         computer data away from prying government eyes. Since
         government has the one-up on everyone else with DES, we felt
         IDEA offered a better chance of keeping the playing field
         level.

         The IDEA algorithm can be operated in several modes. We use
         the Cipher Block Chaining mode, because this is the most
         secure, and it makes sure that, even if two blocks of data on
         your disk contain the same unencrypted data, they'll look
         completely different when encrypted.

         As with all cryptography, even a strong algorithm can be
         broken easily if you aren't careful about your password. I
         know hackers who can get into all kinds of computer systems



    14



         with the greatest of ease, simply because people choose
         passwords that are easy to guess. The famous Internet Worm
         had a list of passwords in it--about a hundred words--which
         are used by at least one user on over 90% of all computer
         systems. Now just about anybody can sit down and try 100
         different words that you're likely to use for a password!

         I recommend you don't use a word at all. KOH gives you up to
         128 characters for the pass phrase. They can be any
         combination of (case sensitive) letters, numbers and
         punctuation. USE THEM. If you just use one word, I can write
         a computer program in about ten minutes that will test every
         word in the dictionary against your passphrase. And it can
         find your "secret" word in about ten minutes. At least use a
         phrase. Definitely use punctuation. Maybe use unusual
         capitalization rules. Probably you should include at least
         one nonsense word. By all means don't quote your favorite
         book.

         What ever you do, remember that if somebody wants to crack
         your pass phrase, it's not just some guy sitting there trying
         to dream up good guesses. It's a guy with a computer that can
         make a million guesses an hour. Make sure that even if you
         could make a million guesses an hour, it would take forever
         to get the right one. That may sound intimidating, but it's
         not really. Chosing 5 random words from a dictionary of
         100,000 means you have about 10,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000
         possibilities and even at 1,000,000 an hour, the universe
         will collapse before you get done. Adding an unnecessary
         exclamation point at the end makes the job all that more
         difficult.

         You should be getting the point: Give some thought to your
         pass phrase.

         The next point is that you need to watch your floppy disks.
         Some people are careful to encrypt some of their data, but
         not all of it. Then if they are attacked, the unencryted data
         is enough to cause trouble. KOH tries to make encryption as
         easy as possible with the auto-migrate feature. It is
         recommended that you leave this feature ON at all times,
         unless you have a specific task at hand that requires it to
         be off. Then turn it off, complete that task, and turn it
         back on. That way, everything that touches your computer will
         stay encrypted, day in and day out. Make sure you go back to
         any old floppies you had before you installed KOH and
         encrypt too (just sit down and do directories on them and
         they'll get encrypted).

         Note that the IDEA algorithm is patented by a group in
         Switzerland. There is no license fee required for non-
         commercial use. For commercial use, you'll have to contact
         the patent holder. Since this program is freeware, we don't



                                                                         15



         handle license fees. Contact Dieter Profos, Ascom-Tech AG,
         Solothurn Lab, Postfach 151, 4502 Solothurn, Switzerland for
         information.

         References:

         Xuejia Lai, "On the Design and Security of Block Ciphers",
         Institute for Signal and Information Processing, ETH-Zentrum,
         Zurich, Switzerland, 1992

         Xuejia Lai, James Massey, Sean Murphy, "Markov Ciphers and
         Differential Cryptanalysis", Advances in Cryptology,
         Eurocrypt 1991.



   16



         6. HOTKEYS
         ==========

         KOH has three basic hotkeys which you can use to perform
         special functions with KOH while it is active in your
         computer. These hotkeys are designed to be easy to remember.
         They are called up by holding down the Ctrl and Alt keys, and
         pressing K, O or H. Let's see what they do:

         Ctrl-Alt-K
         ----------

         This hotkey allows you to change your system pass phrases. As
         you will recall, if you booted from a hard disk, there is a
         hard disk pass phrase and a floppy disk pass phrase. If you
         booted from a floppy disk, there is only a floppy disk pass
         phrase. KOH will allow you to change whatever pass phrases
         are appropriate.

         Changing the hard disk pass phrase is permanent, and allows
         you to access that hard disk only by entering the new pass
         phrase when you start the computer. It takes only a few
         seconds to change this pass phrase, as KOH does not need to
         decrypt and encrypt the whole disk to make it effective. You
         will want to change the hard disk pass phrase any time you
         believe the security of your old pass phrase has been
         compromised.

         Changing the floppy disk pass phrase does not change the
         pass phrase with which you access a given floppy disk. Once a
         floppy has been encrypted using a given pass phrase, it will
         always require that pass phrase to be accessed. A new floppy
         pass phrase will only take effect on any new floppies you put
         in your computer. For example, suppose your floppy pass
         phrase is "PHYSICS TEST = 90" and a friend brings a disk over
         encrypted with the pass phrase "for MY Friend". You can
         change to this floppy pass phrase to read this disk. However,
         your usual disks will not be accessible while this pass
         phrase is in effect. When you're done with your friend,
         you'll want to change back to your original pass phrase so
         you can read your own disks again.

         Ctrl-Alt-O (Remember O = On/Off)
         ----------

         This hotkey turns KOH's auto-migrate feature on and off.
         Auto-migrate is the feature that causes KOH to automatically
         encrypt floppy disks that are put in your computer.

         The hotkey acts as a toggle. If auto-migrate is on, the
         hotkey turns it off, and vice-versa. To tell you what just
         happened when you press this key combination, KOH makes your
         computer beep and displays a "+" or a "-". The plus sign



                                                                          17



         tells you that auto-migrate is now on, and the minus tells
         you it is off.

         If you load KOH from a floppy disk, the change in the status
         of auto-migrate is temporary, and effective only as long as
         your computer is on. When you reboot, or turn your computer
         off and on, KOH will load itself into memory with auto-
         migrate on.

         If you load KOH from your hard disk, the change in status of
         auto-migrate is saved to disk, so that you can turn your
         computer off and on again, and if you had auto-migrate off to
         start with, it will still be off.

         Ctrl-Alt-H  (Remember H = Hard disk uninstall)
         ----------

         This hotkey un-installs KOH from your hard disk. It will ask
         you if you are sure you want to uninstall, and if you answer
         "Y", KOH will proceed to uninstall itself. You can uninstall
         KOH from a hard drive whether that drive is encrypted or not.
         If the drive is encrypted, it may take several hours to
         complete the uninstall--as long as it took to install. So
         make sure you have enough time to allow KOH to uninstall
         itself!

         When uninstalling, the same considerations apply as when
         installing. In other words, make sure you back your system
         up. If you lose power during the uninstall process, you could
         lose everything on your hard disk.

         To uninstall, you must have booted your system with KOH
         installed on the hard disk. If you can't remember the pass
         phrase, this will NOT help you out.

         You cannot un-install KOH on a floppy disk. If you want to
         get the encryption off of a floppy, the only way to do it is
         to copy it all to an unencrypted disk (with auto-migrate
         off, if KOH is active in your computer).



   18



         7. SYSTEM BACKUP
         ================

         Here I want to explain how to do a proper backup when KOH is
         installed on your hard disk, and keep your data private in
         the process. I am going to discuss two things: (1) Making a
         master backup disk, and (2) backing up all of your data to
         floppy disks.

         Now, a lot of people have way too much data to use floppies
         to back up, and they use tape drives. KOH will not encrypt
         the data on your tape, so you have two options: (1) is to buy
         a tape backup program that will encrypt your data. There are
         a number on the market that use some form of DES, but none
         that I know of which use IDEA. Some use weak forms of DES
         too, so beware. The alternative is (2) not to encrypt the
         data on your tape. That is, of course, a potential security
         hole, unless you hide the tape where no one will ever, ever
         find it. Probably getting an air-tight capsule and burying it
         somewhere, or keeping it in a safe-deposit box at some
         foreign bank would work best. We fully intend to build
         modules to allow you to back up to tapes using IDEA, and
         working off your KOH key, but these are not available yet.

         The Master Disk
         ---------------

         A master disk is a bootable disk with enough software to get
         your computer up and running again in the event of a disk
         crash. At the very least, you should have a bootable disk
         with FDISK, FORMAT and SYS, as well as the program you need
         to restore your backup from the backup floppies, or the tape
         drive.

         You can encrypt this master disk with KOH. It will not affect
         anything you do if you ever have to restore your hard disk.
         Alternatively, you may just want to put the KOH.COM program
         on the master disk, and maybe this file as well.

         There is one other thing you will want to put on your master
         disk. KOH makes your computer system somewhat more
         susceptible to damage by computer viruses, because viruses
         don't usually know how to handle the encryption routines. For
         example, the Stoned virus is fairly benign on most computer
         systems. It just displays the message "Your PC is stoned."
         now and then. However, if it infects your encrypted computer,
         it can totally trash everything in your computer. A small
         program VPROTECT has been included with the KOH distribution
         package. This creates a special file on your master disk that
         is an image of the KOH system areas. You should run it from
         your master disk as follows:

                VPROTECT



                                                                       19



         It will create a file VPROTECT.DAT on your master disk. In
         the event your computer is attacked by a virus, or the system
         areas are damaged for any other reason, you should run

                VPROTECT /write

         from your master disk to restore the system areas on your
         hard disk. Once this is done, KOH will have the decryption
         keys restored and everything necessary to hand over control
         to DOS. Obviously, if a virus trashes more data on your
         computer than just this system area, you'll have to deal with
         that in other ways.

         Backup to Floppy
         ----------------

         KOH will allow you to backup your hard disk to floppy disks
         without compromising security. It can encrypt your backup
         floppies just as it encrypts any other floppy. The key to
         using KOH effectively in a floppy backup is to use a program
         that uses a standard DOS disk format.

         A fine way to back up without using an excessive number of
         disks is using the PKZIP/PKUNZIP programs or the ARJ program.
         I'll describe this process in case you want to use it. Also,
         the considerations discussed in using ARJ with KOH will
         apply to other backup programs as well.

         Typically, you cannot get a backup file onto the disk without
         KOH going there first when auto-migrate is on. Thus, the
         process of backing up will be completely transparent, even if
         you use disks that have never been encrypted. The one thing
         you have to remember is that KOH takes up a small amount of
         disk space, so if you have to tell the backup program how big
         your diskette is, you should reduce it by about 6 kilobytes.
         For example, using ARJ to backup to 1.44 megabyte diskettes
         in the B: drive, you would specify

                arj a -r -v1430000 b:backup c:\*.*

         This tells ARJ to create the archive BACKUP on the B: drive
         and use a volume size of 1.43 megabytes, and to recurse
         subdirectories (so your whole disk is backed up). Just
         execute this and everything will work fine.

         One thing to be aware of is that some backup programs will
         allow you to optionally format the floppy disks as you go
         through the backup. Turn this option off, because it will
         invariably confuse KOH. Format your floppies before you do
         the backup.

         Note: You can still use a backup program that uses non-



    20



         standard disk formats (like some versions of Fastback and PC
         Tools) with KOH, you just can't encrypt with KOH. To use
         these kinds of programs without confusing KOH, turn auto-
         migrate off before backing up using the hotkey Ctrl-Alt-O.




                                                                          21


         8. HOW DO I . . . ?
         ===================

         Here I'd just like to answer a few common questions.

         Format floppy disks?
         --------------------

         Formatting floppy disks is one process that wipes out the 
         boot sector on a disk, obliterates data, and re-organizes the 
         FAT table. Furthermore, there are many different ways this 
         can be done. KOH cannot possibly anticipate all the possible 
         ways this happens. As such, a little more care must be taken 
         when formatting floppy disks when KOH is resident.

         First of all, if you use DOS 5 or greater, the FORMAT program 
         doesn't always really format. This fake-format is a sure way 
         to confuse KOH--but that is just as well, because it is also 
         a great way to compromise your valuable data. When KOH is 
         installed, it is recommended that you only use a REAL format. 
         For DOS 5 and up, this is accomplished by using the /u 
         switch. For example, to format the disk in A:, type 
         "FORMAT A: /U". If you use something other than the standard 
         DOS format, you should experiment first to see what it does.

         As a safety, to make sure you get a clean, unformatted disk 
         when formatting, KOH disables encryption to floppy disks as 
         soon as it sees formatting take place. To remind you that 
         encryption was turned off by formatting, every time you 
         access a floppy disk, you will hear a series of beeps. The 
         only way to start encryption back up after a format is to 
         reboot. 

         Share an encrypted disk with a friend?
         --------------------------------------

         If your friend has KOH on his computer, you can temporarily
         change the pass phrase on a floppy disk to an agreed upon
         phrase, and then give it to him. He can then temporarily
         change to that password to get at the data. I do not
         recommend you make your standard floppy pass phrase public.
         That defeats its purpose.

         If your friend does not have KOH on his computer, you can
         still give him an encrypted disk. He will just have to boot
         off of it to access it as discussed next . . .

         Access data from a machine that doesn't have KOH installed?
         -----------------------------------------------------------

         Suppose you go somewhere and you have encrypted disks. You
         want to access them, but the machine you are at doesn't even
         have KOH installed. How can you get to the data?



   22



         Since KOH usually copies itself to disks that it encrypts,
         you can boot off of those disks to load KOH into memory. If
         your floppy disk is a boot disk, fine, that is all you need
         to do. But what if it isn't? You should still boot off of
         that disk, and tell KOH to migrate to the hard disk. KOH will
         then ask for a pass phrase. Instead of entering it, just
         reboot. When you reboot, boot off of the hard disk (don't
         encrypt it unless you really want to do all that) and enter
         the pass phrase that your floppy is encrypted with. Now you
         should be able to access that floppy disk. When you're done,
         just uninstall KOH using the hotkey Ctrl-Alt-H. The uninstall
         will only take a second since the hard disk is not encrypted.

         Re-Partition a drive?
         ---------------------

         Changing the partition information on a drive is such a
         drastic change that you should completely uninstall KOH
         before changing the partitions, and then re-install when you
         are done.

         Install Windows or a disk compression utility?
         ----------------------------------------------

         You can install Windows or a disk compression utility like
         DOS' own, or Stacker, just as you ordinarily would. KOH is
         fully compatible with both.

         If you have the Windows 32-bit extensions, you may find that
         the disk driver will not load, and suggest that you may have
         a virus. Simply ignore this. Our experience is that this
         driver has so many problems that you are better off not using
         it to begin with, and when it doesn't load, it just allows
         the disk to be accessed in the normal way, so you'll never
         know it's not there.

         Install OS/2 (or Unix)?
         -----------------------

         At present, KOH is not compatible with advanced operating
         systems which do not go through the system BIOS to access the
         disk, and it is not compatible with IBM's boot manager. We
         intend to create drivers to make it work seamlessly
         with these operating systems eventually. Also, we are going
         to make a boot manager that will work with KOH available very
         soon. If you are interested, please contact American Eagle
         Publications at the address below.



                                                                         23



         9. IF YOU HAVE PROBLEMS
         =======================

         There are a number of known problems that you may encounter
         when you use KOH. Some of these have nothing to do with KOH
         and can't be fixed at our end. I'll explain what I know
         about. If you run into a bug that you don't know how to fix,
         write to American Eagle Publications at the address below.

         No Room for KOH
         ---------------

         If you have used non-standard partitioning software, your
         hard disk may not be able to hold KOH properly in its
         reserved area. In this event, KOH will tell you there is no
         room on the hard disk for it, and it will not install itself.
         To make your disk accept KOH, you must re-partition your
         drive with the standard DOS FDISK program, and then re-
         install. Realize that running FDISK will certainly wipe out
         all the data on your computer, so you'd better have backed
         up.

         Keyboard BIOS Bugs
         ------------------

         Some AMI (and probably other manufacturers) keyboard BIOS's
         don't seem to work very well in real mode. Now, typically you
         never notice this, because you load HIMEM.SYS, or some other
         memory manager into your computer's memory when you boot, and
         the processor goes almost immediately into protected mode.
         Since KOH takes control before any device drivers, it always
         operates in real mode. Thus this bug could manifest on you
         now even though you've never seen it before. What you'll
         experience is a difficulty in entering your pass phrases
         properly, and there is practically nothing you can do about
         it. You'll never get through to anyone at the manufacturer
         who will believe you. Personally, I recommend you replace you
         keyboard BIOS with a Phoenix chip if you run into this
         problem. (The keyboard BIOS and the BIOS are NOT the same
         thing. The keyboard BIOS is implemented in an 8042 chip.)

         Some XT hard disks time out loading DOS 6
         -----------------------------------------

         Anyone who wants to use KOH on an XT based machine CAN do so.
         There is nothing in the software to prevent it from working.
         However, it's incredibly SLOOOOOW. You may find out that your
         operating system will time-out when loading. I know for a
         fact that MS-DOS 6.2 will time out on some XTs. And I know
         you can get MS-DOS 3.3 to load properly. I'd really recommend
         you upgrade your motherboard--it's so inexpensive. But if you
         must run this on an XT, then you may have to experiment with
         which version of DOS to run. If it doesn't load, try a
         different version.



    24


         Password Doesn't Seem to Work
         -----------------------------

         If your password doesn't appear to work the first time you
         try to use your computer after encrypting, you may have
         entered it wrong. Remember your password is case sensitive.
         Could the CAPS LOCK or NUM LOCK key have been active when you
         originally entered your password. Could you have capitalized
         a word? Try the different possibilities. If all else fails,
         start over from scratch.

         SCSI Drives
         -----------

         Some SCSI drives use installable device drivers in addition
         to the ROM BIOS on the SCSI card. Sometimes these drivers can
         cause problems because they are vendor specific and they can
         manipulate the ROM BIOS in unfriendly ways. Specifically,
         they may replace it entirely, and bypass the KOH decryption
         algorithms. Then your disk may look like trash as soon as
         the driver loads. Alternatively, they may hook it in some
         funny way, so, for example the hot keys won't work properly
         when they are installed. To avoid such problems when
         installing KOH, it is recommended that you first remove all
         such drivers (from CONFIG.SYS) and then install KOH with your
         SCSI drive relying purely on the ROM BIOS. Next, put your
         drivers back in, one at a time, and make sure KOH is still
         working.




                                                                      25



         10. ORDERING INFORMATION
         ========================

         The executable files and the KOH.DOC files are freeware and
         may be distributed freely. You may order a disk with these
         files on them directly from American Eagle Publications. If
         you are in a country other than the US, the price is
         different, and the software will be sent to you directly from
         an overseas affiliate, because we will obey the law here
         in the US about not exporting this program. You may also
         order a diskette with complete source code on it, if you
         prefer. The source IS NOT freeware and MAY NOT be distributed
         freely. You must purchase it from American Eagle and you may
         not copy it.

         Prices
         ------

                        KOH Distribution Disk         Source Disk
                        ---------------------         -----------
         US                     $10                      $20
         Non-US                 $20                      $30

         Please send check, cash or money order, or your VISA or MC 
         number and expiration date. Overseas customers may send US $ 
         or the equivalent in your currency. All prices are postpaid. 

         Where to Order
         --------------

         Order from:

                       American Eagle Publications, Inc.
                                 P.O. Box 41401
                                Tucson, AZ 85717
                                 (602)888-4957



