                               IIU Presents...
                           - L o c a l  v 0 . 3 0 -


INTRODUCTION
------------
	 Local is a tsr utility for dos-based machines that provides access to
"important information" while online.   To install, copy the .dat and .doc
files to a nice, safe directory where they can live unmolested.  put the
.exe files somewhere in your path and away you go.  to execute, slip the
program a path to the .dat files, such as:

   local c:\dos\data\

   the trailing slash is important.  to activate, press shift-f2.  shift-f4
removes the tsr from memory.	The following is a complete list of files for
this archive:

local.exe 	- tsr application program
local.doc 	- doc file
loc-util.exe	- utilities
dialdata.dat	- data file for dialups
sysident.dat	- data file system types


PROGRAM PURPOSE
---------------
hopefully, this program will aid you in getting rid of your "bust-me" book.
isnt it sorta silly to spend all our time on these damn machines, but still
use paper and pencil to keep track of stuff?	of course, those of you will
real operating systems (x, amigados, etc) dont have the problems that
dos users do, ie: its very hard to talk dos into doing two things of once.
thats the whole point in this program running as a tsr.  enough of the
prelims, lets get down to the meat of the thing...


DATA FORMAT
-----------
        heres the format for a dialup entry:

 |---- dialup npa (area code) 3 numbers
 |	 |--- dialup prefix 3 numbers
 |	 |	 |--- dialup suffix 3 numbers
 |	 |	 |	 |--- baud rate (30, 12, 24, or 96)
 |	 |	 |	 |	 |--- parameters (three chars, ie: 8n1 7e1 ???)
 |	 |	 |	 |	 |	|--- caps indicator (C if system is upper case only)
 |	 |	 |	 |	 |	| 	|--- emulation (tty, ansi, etc)
NPA PRE SUFF BD PAR C EMULA SYSTEM_IDENT  A S P C T  LABEL
		                  |       | | | | |    |--- label for dialup
		                  |       | | | | |         (text 24 chars)
		                  |       | | | | |--- accounts? (! == yes)
		                  |       | | | |--- comments? (! == yes)
		                  |       | | |--- privacy level (0-4)
		                  |       | |--- security level (0-4)
 		                  |       |--- access level (0-4)
                                  |--- operating system (unix, vms, wang)
																			user-definable, select from 240 types

additionally, there are three text fields:

   response: 60 chars, text that dialup sends when first logging on
   comments: 60 chars, any text sets the ! char... see comments above
   accounts: 60 chars, any text sets the ! char... see accounts above

a typical entry might look like this:

NPA PRE SUFF BD PAR C EMULA SYSTEM_IDENT  A S P C T  LABEL
    555 1212 96 7e1   unix                1 4 4 ! !  nsa central facility

   this system would be in the default npa (user-definable, npa will not print
if same as default), and the phone # would be 555-1212.  9600 baud,
7e1 for parms, tty for emulation, (tty in the emulation field is not printed,
due to the number of tty systems) and the operating sytem would be unix.
access level is 1 (none), security level is 4(scary) and privacy level is 4
(mine).  the !'s in the comment and account fields denote text in those
fields.  label text: figure it out

THE APPLICATION
---------------
  After pressing shift-f2, the following menu will be presented:

                         Add Dialups
                     View/Modify Dialups
                   View/Modify System Types
                         Ascii Table
                             Exit


Add Dialups
-----------
	 This creates an entry with default parameters and allows you to fill
in the rest of the information.  here are the defaults (note, only the
default npa is changeable, all other defaults are hard-coded)

         npa: default npa
        baud: 2400
       parms: 7e1
        caps: mixed
system_ident: unknown
    accounts: 0
    security: 0
     privacy: 0
   all other fields blank

also note that the access, security, and privacy fields are displayed in
the dialup entry as 0-4, but when adding or editing an entry, the following
choices are presented:

access:   untested none some more mine
security: unknown  none some more scary
privacy:  unrated  none some more mine

the leftmost choices are 0, while the rightmost are 4.	if the field is set
to 0, the number will not be displayed in the dialup entry.  use of these
fields is in no way required, and can be ignored if you wish.

entering text into the comments or accounts text field causes a ! to appear
on the dialup entry.


View/Modify Dialups
-------------------
   this brings up a window that shows eight dialup entries at one time.
the currently selected dialup will be shown in green.  you may scroll around
these entries with the arrow keys and change pages with pgup and pgdn.
a page counter is located in the bottom right hand corner of the screen.
Available options are:

 Enter-View: Shows the full record for the current entry.  this is basically
             just the entry shown at the top of the screen, with the label,
             response, comments, and accounts text fields displayed.

     E-Edit: Very similar to the add function, but all information from
             the highlighted dialup entry is filled in, allowing you to
             change any information for the entry.

AltD-Delete: Deletes the highlighted entry.

     F-Find: fill in any values you wish to find.  the search starts at
             the dialup following the current one.  simply hit enter for
             those fields you do not wish to search on.  for text fields,
             substrings will be matched. (sorry, no wildcards)

    A-Again: searchs for the information last entered with the Find command

   L-Legend: displays brief explanation of the data format.  

      T-Top: jump to start of dialup entries

   B-Bottom: jump to end of dialup entries


View/Modify System Types
------------------------
allows you to add new system types or edit existing ones.  to add a new entry,
just keep hitting pgdn until you come to some blank entries.  move to a
blank entry and hit enter to assign text to this entry.  a few system types
have been provided with this archive, but youll undoubtedly want to add some
of your own.  the maximum number of entries is 240.

Ascii Table
-----------
something to trick the peons into using this program.  displays ibm normal 
and extended ascii codes.


UTILITIES
---------
the loc-util program provides a variety of servies that were better
implemented in a seperate program, rather than attempting to code them for
use in a tsr.  typing loc-util by itself will present the following options:

		 1 - initialize dialdata.dat
		 2 - sort sysident.dat
		 3 - sort dialdata.dat
		 4 - change default npa
		 5 - import toneloc data file

Option 1
--------
this re-initalizes the dialdata.dat file.  warning: any dialups you already
have WILL be inaccessable after selecting this option.

Option 2
--------
sorts the system types in sysident.dat into alphabetical order.  good to
run after adding new system types.

Option 3
--------
sorts dialdata.dat (dialups) according to user specs.  all sorts are
ascending, and only the following fields may be sorted on:

number (npa+pre+suff)
system type
label
response
comments
accounts

Option 4
--------
this patches local.exe with a new default area code.	no tricks, npa must
be a three digit number, not starting with 0.

Option 5
--------
this accepts a toneloc .dat file as input and tacks all the dialups onto
the tail end of dialdata.dat.  the npa and prefix are also requested.  
toneloc imports are identified by the 'toneloc' entry under system_ident.
other defaults: 300 baud, 7e1 parms, tty emulation, and mixed caps.



SECURITY
--------
for all practical purposes, this version of local is a joke security-wise.
if this program is being used seriously, some animal cunning is required.
one method would be to encrypt dialdata.dat with a third party program, such 
as pgp or vincrypt.  remember: feds confiscate EVERYTHING.


PROBLEMS AND PITFALLS
---------------------
  getting a tsr to run on some systems is a real hassle.  if any tsrs
give you memory problems, youll definately have trouble with this one.
it uses an entire segment of memory (64K) and the manner it operates in may
give some programs the heebee jeebies.	ive tested with telix v3.20 and
terminate v1.0 and had no problems whatsoever.	YMMV.  two programs that have
problems for sure are gedit and the borland c compiler.  they run fine
with the tsr installed, just dont try to pop it up.  also: dont try to
deactivate the tsr when another program is running.  exit to dos first.

  because of the limitations when writing a tsr, this program is extremely
simple and at times can be very slow.  while there is no practical limit on
the number of dialup entries, it can get pretty slow going above 20 or 30
pages.	(thats 160 entries)  486's and the like shouldnt have any problems,
but lower grade machines will suffer.  the delete function in view/modify
dialups is particularly slow if you delete an entry near the beginning of
the data file.

  and finally, i cant account for every situation.  if you insist on doing
something silly, like adding dialups during a file transfer, i REFUSE to take
any flack for it.  bug reports are appreciated, but use some common sense.

CLOSING
-------
  100% written in C, with tsr support functions confiscated from "the art of
C" by herbert schildt, and based on an earlier program program of mine called
telenet.  hopefully, not too many people saw it.  program suggestions, 
comments, etc welcome if youre proficient in coding to any degree.  other-
wise, shut the hell up.  

IIU 93

special thanx to: dr delam & maldoror
greets to: pscream, GP, kaleidox, hannibal, el penga, uyi & krew


