                       Documentation for Pbx Scanner v5.0

    Of course you should never under any circumstances use this program for
    illegal purposes (HaHa!).

    To  use this program you must have a modem that returns extended result
    codes  such  as  "VOICE"  "BUSY"  and "RINGING". The program itself was
    written for a U.S. Robotics 2400 baud modem.

    I  wrote  this program because of the fact that codes are becoming very
    hard to come by.  With  this program you can let your computer scan for
    you  and have most of the possible pbx's in one file that you can check
    using  the  "Dial  from  a  file"  option  in  the scanner. Most of the
    possible PBX's  will be in a file called "1RING".  Other files that the
    program will create are:
    "NOCAR"- for more possible PBX's and VMS's
    "MODEM"- for those modems you feel like playing with.
    "VOICE"- for those numbers that had at least 2 rings then a VOICE code.
    "BUSYS"- for the busy numbers of course.
    "PAUSE"- tells you what time the scanning was paused and restarted.
     and if you save the disconnects-
    "DISCN"- for the numbers that had no rings and an immediate VOICE code.


    Comport- Defaults to "COM1:2400,N,8,1"- This is simply the comport that
    you  will be dialing from and the baud rate to open at.  You should use
    the highest baud rate that your modem can handle.

    Scan String-  Defaults  to  "ATE0M0Q0V1X6S7=40S9=6S11=50".  This is the
    string  that will be sent to your modem prior to scanning. Consult your
    modem guide to make any changes. With the string as it is set now, on a
    US Robotics 2400 baud modem, it will:  E0-Turn local echo off.  M0-Turn
    the modem speaker off.  Q0-Send result codes.  V1-Send  result codes in
    words.  X6-Set  result  codes  to  maximum.  S7=40-Wait  40 seconds for
    carrier  or  other result code. S9=6-Say that a carrier must be present
    for  .6  seconds  to be recognized.  S11=50-Set the dialing speed to 50
    milliseconds per digit.

    Listen String-  Defaults  to  "ATE0M3Q1V1X0S7=255S9=255S11=50". This is
    the  string that will be sent to your modem when using the "Dial from a
    file"  feature of the program, it will: E0-Turn local echo off. M3-Turn
    modem speaker on after dialing is completed.  Q1-Suppress result codes.
    V1-If  result  codes  were  sent  (which they aren't)  they would be in
    words.  X0-Set  result  codes  to  minimum. S7=255-Wait 255 seconds for
    carrier (overridden by key commands). S9=255-Say that a carrier must be
    present  for  25.5  seconds  before  it  is  recognized. S11=50-Set the
    dialing speed for 50 milliseconds per digit.

    Dial command- Defaults to "ATDT*70".  This is the command that you send
    your  modem  to  tell  it  to dial.  I have it set also to disable call
    waiting.

    Modem reset-  Defaults  to "2". This is the amount of seconds that your
    computer  will  wait  before dialing again. Used for resetting the line
    and modem.

    Save disconnects-  Defaults  to  "N". Change this to "Y" if you want to
    save  all the numbers that get a "VOICE" result code without any rings.

    Default Prefix-  Defaults  to  "1-602-230". This is the prefix that you
    will be scanning. It is changeable when you begin scanning also. As you
    can see, you can enter 1-A.C.-Pre or A.C.-Pre or just the Prefix.

    Default suffix-  Defaults  to  "0000".  This is the beginning suffix to
    start scanning at.  Starting  with  version 2.0 it now saves the suffix
    that  you  quit  scanning  at  in  this  spot so that you don't have to
    re-enter  it  all  the  time.  Saves paper and trees too.  This is also
    changeable when you begin scanning.

    Reset modem command-  Defaults  to "ATZ". This is the command that will
    be sent to your modem to change it back to factory defaults.

    Output to DONE-  Defaults  to  "N".  Change this to "Y" if you want the
    results of the scan saved in a file called "DONE".

    Print SCAN.SCN-  Defaults to "Y". If you have a printer and set this to
    "Y" then, when you [M]ark a number when dialing from a file, the number
    will be printed on your printer as well as "SCAN.SCN".

    When  dialing  from  a file you have different options while listening,
    they are:

    [B]ackup-  This  is  used  to redial the Last number called. You cannot
    backup  more  than one number though. ie. You hit [Return] a little too
    long  and  the  typematic  thinks  you  hit it twice. So you [B]ackup a
    number and call the number that was skipped.

    [M]ark-  This  is  used  to  save  the  current number to a file called
    "SCAN.SCN".

    [R]edial- This is used to redial the same number again.

    [P]ause-  This is used to pause the listening. You can also [Q]uit from
    here. The program will automatically start dialing again after 30 min.

    [Q]uit-  This will stop the listening and save all remaining numbers to
    the same filename that they were in in the beginning.

    [Return] to continue- This will hang up the current call and move on to
    the next call.


    If you decide to enter the suffix's instead of using the defaults,  and
    you mess it up in one way or another, use the "-"(minus) key to go back
    and fix it.


    Well,  that pretty much covers the basics, if you find any problems let
    me know. Have Phun.

                                  Great White

   Boards that you can find me on:

   Lunatic Labs-    (xxx) xxx-xxxx
   Lunatic Phringe- (xxx) xxx-xxxx
   The Pentagon-    (xxx) xxx-xxxx
   Village Inn-     (xxx) xxx-xxxx
