



























                                P C   M E C H A N I C

                                     Version 2.0

                                     USERS MANUAL


                      Copyright (C) 1986-1991 Michael R. Busman




































                                          C O N T E N T S
                                          ---------------

                                                                      PAGE
                   LIST OF FILES ON THIS DISK .......................   1

                   INTRODUCTION .....................................   2

                   INSTALLATION & HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS .............   4

                   GETTING STARTED ..................................   6

                   UTILITIES SYSTEM .................................   7

                   INVENTORY SYSTEM .................................   8

                   WORK ORDER SYSTEM ................................   12

                   PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM ....................   14

                   EQUIPMENT DATABASE SYSTEM ........................   17

                   EMPLOYEE DATABASE SYSTEM .........................   18

                   TIPS & POINTERS ..................................   19

                   GETTING HELP .....................................   20

                   HOW TO REGISTER PC MECHANIC ......................   22

                   REGISTRATION FORM ................................   23

                   HISTORY OF PC MECHANIC ...........................   24

































                                DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

          THIS SOFTWARE AND MANUAL ARE SOLD "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES
          AS TO PERFORMANCE OF MERCHANTABILITY OR ANY OTHER WARRANTIES
          WHETHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED.  BECAUSE OF THE VARIOUS HARDWARE
          AND SOFTWARE ENVIRONMENTS INTO WHICH THIS PROGRAM MAY BE PUT, NO
          WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE IS OFFERED.

          GOOD DATA PROCESSING PROCEDURE DICTATES THAT ANY PROGRAM BE
          THOROUGHLY TESTED WITH NON-CRITICAL DATA BEFORE RELYING ON IT.
          THE USER MUST ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK OF USING THE PROGRAM.  ANY
          LIABILITY OF THE SELLER WILL BE LIMITED EXCLUSIVELY TO PRODUCT
          REPLACEMENT OR REFUND OF PURCHASE PRICE.





















































                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 1

          LIST OF FILES ON THIS DISK
          --------------------------

          To insure that you are working with the complete PC MECHANIC
          package, the following files should be included on the program
          disk:

          FILENAME           FUNCTION
          --------           --------
          INSTALL.BAT        Installation batch file
          PCMECH.EXE         Main PC MECHANIC executable file
          READ.ME            Explains how to print out documentation manual
                             Display using the DOS TYPE command
          PCMECH.DOC         This file, the users manual
          INV.OVL            Inventory system overlay file
          UTILITY.OVL        Utilities subsystem overlay file
          WORK.OVL           Work order system overlay file
          PM.OVL             Preventive maintenance system overlay file
          EQUIP.OVL          Equipment database system overlay file
          EMPL.OVL           Employee database system overlay file
          PMMASLST.FRM       Report format file
          TRADERPT.FRM       Report format file
          LOCAT.FRM          Report format file
          EQUIPRPT.FRM       Report format file
          WOHEQUIP.FRM       Report format file
          WOHLOC.FRM         Report format file
          PMDONE.FRM         Report format file
          PMBAKLOG.FRM       Report format file
          PERFREVU.FRM       Report format file
          EMPLIST.FRM        Report format file
          SENIORITY.FRM      Report format file
          EQUIP.FRM          Report format file
          EMPHIST.FRM        Report format file






























                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 2

          INTRODUCTION
          ------------

               Why computerize the preventive maintenance and work order
          system?  If your operation handles more than a couple of hundred
          work requests per week, it is very easy for many to "fall through
          the crack" or get lost in a paperwork system.  Once a work
          request arrives and is passed on to the appropriate trade
          supervisor, you have no immediate record of the request or
          control over the prioritization or scheduling.

               Have you ever wondered how much output you are getting from
          your employees?  Does it take an inordinate amount of time to dig
          up information on how much was spent on repairs for a particular
          piece of equipment?  Can you easily document how much was spent
          on repairs for a certain department due to the department's
          neglect or abuse of equipment?  Once set up does your preventive
          maintenance system keep an employee occupied pulling cards or
          writing up preventive maintenance work orders?  Do you know what
          your corrective and preventive maintenance backlogs are?  Have
          you ever had to hunt through file drawers to find a part number
          or lubricant type for a piece of equipment?  Do you know how many
          of the outstanding work requests are 1 week, 2 weeks, 1 month, or
          2 months old?  Do you know how much spare parts inventory is
          sitting on the shelf?  Do you have too many last minute parts
          purchases because someone forgot to tell you when the supply got
          low?  Do you have $3000-$15,000 to spend on a commercial
          maintenance software package?

               If you honestly answered the above questions, then you
          should begin to think about how the PC MECHANIC MAINTENANCE
          MANAGEMENT SYSTEM may be an organizational tool to help you.
          How?  Because a computerized work order and preventive
          maintenance system can do the necessary number crunching and
          menial tasks such as retrieving records, printing work
          assignments, posting to records, and report generation that may
          be too much for your present staff.

               The PC MECHANIC is an application written in the dBASE
          programming language.  Although dBASE is a very powerful database
          management program, it can be very difficult for people to use.
          To use the PC MECHANIC, you don't have to know the first thing
          about dBASE.  I've done the hard work writing a totally menu-
          driven system that is E A S Y to use.  The menus and input
          screens almost make these instructions unnecessary.  Depending on
          how most people will need information in reports, I've built in a
          lot of flexibility to search based on different criteria.

               Since we touched on the subject of programming, let me tell
          you a little about myself.  I don't claim to be a programmer as
          can be evidenced by a look at some of my source code.  It might












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 3

          not be pretty, but it somehow manages to work.  I do think I know
          a little about maintenance and computerized maintenance systems.
          My full-time employment is in the area of energy management and
          maintenance for a major U.S. hospitality company.  I am involved
          every day with building maintenance personnel and have been
          exposed to a number of maintenance software packages over the
          past few years.  My two main gripes about most maintenance
          software are the high cost and complexity for the typical user.

               Armed with a rebellious spirit to stick it to the greed-
          mongers charging thousands, a desire to better learn dBASE
          programming, and a wild fantasy that I might actually be able to
          keep my wife in mink and diamonds, I set out to write a shareware
          maintenance management program that would be easy to use.  What
          is shareware?  I like to think of it as "test drive before you
          buy".  Try it.  If you don't like it, throw it away or burn it.
          You haven't lost anything.  If you do find you like it and it
          benefits your operation, then most shareware authors request that
          you send in a registration payment to the author to reward him
          for his efforts.  Most shareware authors urge you to spread
          copies of their program around to friends, associates, user
          groups, or bulletin boards.  Some authors warn that if you
          continue to use their program and don't send in the registration
          payment, you will suffer from bad Karma, guilt trips, or swarms
          of locusts.

               I think I am a little more reasonable and to the point.  I
          hold the copyright to this program.  If you think it is lousy,
          don't use it.  Better yet, drop me a note telling me your beef
          and I will do my best to incorporate your suggestions into the
          program.  If you do like it and use it, I would suggest a
          registration payment of $50.00 or whatever amount you would like
          to contribute to my wife's mink and diamonds fund.  In all
          seriousness, let me say that I have invested many, many hours of
          my free time writing the PC MECHANIC. I would like to think that
          someone appreciates it enough to register, or at least enough to
          send a note with comments. Registered users will be notified of
          future updates, which will be available at minimal cost.  For
          everyone, I will be available for help and questions.  My home
          telephone number is (914) 683-5191.  I can also be reached on
          Compuserve, user ID# 71121,2014.  If it is during the day and it
          is an emergency, my wife can give out my office number, but I
          prefer to keep this to a minimum.  Registration payments or
          questions can be sent to:

                   Michael R. Busman
                   23 Old Mamaroneck Rd., #5-O
                   White Plains, NY  10605















                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 4

               Whether you become a registered user or not, I hope you find
          that the PC MECHANIC provides many of the functions of commercial
          maintenance management software in an easy-to-use, inexpensive
          package.

               At some point in the documentation, most folks usually put
          some sort of legal disclaimer stating that they are not
          responsible for anything.  Upon strong legal recommendation, I
          have included similar wording at the beginning of this manual.  I
          have spent a lot of time trying to find all of the bugs in the PC
          MECHANIC.  It should be relatively bug-free, however, I can't
          give a 100% guarantee.  What I will promise is that if you find a
          bug and notify me, I will do my best to correct it.  As far as
          liability is concerned, if you manage to blow up a boiler or eat
          through the condenser tubes in a chiller, then it's your own damn
          fault.


          INSTALLATION & HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
          ------------------------------------

            Hardware & Software:
               -IBM or compatible PC, 640K ram memory recommended
               -Hard disk drive
               -Color monitor recommended
               -Dot matrix printer for work orders, reports, listings,
                etc.
               -DOS 2.0 or above
               -Backup and restore programs (filenames BACKUP.COM and
                RESTORE.COM), also from your DOS disk


            Forms Requirements:
                -3.5 inch high continuous feed paper is recommended for
                 printing of work orders and preventive maintenance work
                 orders.  This is a convenient size as work orders printed
                 in condensed print easily fit in a maintenance engineer's
                 shirt pocket.  There are probably many possible sources
                 for this paper, however, 2 that I know of are:

                    Visible Computer Supply, St. Charles, IL
                    tel. 312-377-0990
                    3.5 inch by 5 inch continuous file cards(index card
                    size), catalog # DP325 TFC, 5000/carton

                    Moore Business Forms,3.5 inch by 8.5 inch, 2 part
                    continuous feed paper, 3700 sheets/box, mfg.# FO-450
















                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 5

            Installation:

               Beginning with the version 1.2 of PC MECHANIC  it is no
          longer necessary to use dBASE III Plus or dBASE IV.  PC MECHANIC
          now runs stand-alone, so you don't need anything else.
          Additionally, it runs much faster now than under the dBASE
          interpreter.  The first time installation of PC MECHANIC should
          follow the steps below.  If you already have PC MECHANIC running
          on your PC, go to step 4 below.


                1.  Turn on your PC and wait until you have the C> prompt,
                    or whatever hard disk drive you want to use.  During
                    these instructions I will refer to the C> prompt or the
                    "C" drive for your hard disk.  You could be set up with
                    a different drive letter so substitute yours
                    accordingly.

                2.  Place the PC MECHANIC disk in the "A" diskette drive.
                    Type in "A:INSTALL" (without the quotes) and hit the
                    enter key.

                3.  Place the DOS disk in the "A" diskette drive, type
                    in without the quote marks, "COPY A:BACKUP.COM", and
                    hit the enter key.  Next type in without the quote
                    marks, "COPY A:RESTORE.COM", and hit enter.

                4.  You have just finished the installation process.  You
                    now have a subdirectory on your hard drive called
                    \PCMECH.  The PC MECHANIC executable program and report
                    format files have been transferred to this
                    subdirectory.  Also, you have copied two files from
                    your DOS disk to this subdirectory.

                5.  If you already have an earlier version of PC MECHANIC
                    running on your PC, you just need to copy the PC
                    MECHANIC disk to the proper subdirectory.  Type in
                    without the quote marks, "CD PCMECH" and hit enter.
                    Put the PC MECHANIC disk in the "A" drive and type in
                    "COPY A:*.* and hit enter.

          IMPORTANT NOTE:
          ---------------

                Make sure you have a CONFIG.SYS file in the root directory
          with at least two lines such as "FILES = 20" and "BUFFERS = 15"
          contained in the file.  If you don't have such a configuration
          file present at boot-up, the system will crash when running
          PC MECHAHNIC.  If this all sounds like Greek, consult your DOS
          manual, your local PC guru, or give me a call.













                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 6

          GETTING STARTED
          ---------------

               That's all there is to it.  To fire up PC MECHANIC, you must
          be at the C> prompt and in the PC MECHANIC subdirectory.  To make
          sure you are in the correct subdirectory, type in without the
          quote marks, "CD PCMECH" and hit the enter key.  Then type
          "PCMECH" and hit enter.  You will soon see the PC MECHANIC title
          screen for a few seconds, next the shareware message (otherwise
          known as a commercial message from the sponsors), next a prompt
          to make sure that you have set the caps lock on, and finally, the
          main menu will be displayed.

               In basic usage, menu selection is made by highlighting the
          item with the up and down arrow cursor keys and hitting enter or
          by hitting the number key corresponding to the desired choice,
          ie: hit 6 to enter the UTILITIES SYSTEM.  If you are using an
          earlier version of PC MECHANIC, select option 4 to convert from
          an earlier version.  The other menu options will be explained
          later.  When the conversion process has finished, you will be
          shown the UTILITIES SYSTEM menu again.  Select option 6, which
          will return you to the main menu.

          Most menus and data entry screens are fairly intuitive as to what
          you should type in.  When filling in the data entry screens, if a
          piece of information is not known, leave the field blank.  If you
          are ever unsure of an entry or menu option, one of the
          enhancements to this version of PC MECHANIC is context sensitive
          help.  You access this by hitting the F1 function key.  Remember,
          HELP IS ACCESSED BY HITTING F1.  When you complete a field, hit
          enter or the down arrow key to position the cursor at the start
          of the next field.  If you make a mistake and haven't left a
          field yet, you have the left & right arrows, backspace, delete,
          and insert keys available for editing the data field. Sometimes,
          you can move back one field by hitting the up arrowkey. This will
          vary due to the usage of dBASE READ commands.  Finally, if you
          make a mistake, continue entering data in the remaining fields.
          When you get to the bottom of the screen, you will be asked if
          everything is OK.  The normal response is Y for yes or N for no.
          By hitting N, or just enter since the default is no, you can step
          back through the data fields and make corrections where
          necessary.  If a field is OK, just hit enter to move on to the
          next field.

               In these instructions, there will be many instances where
          you will be told to type in something.  The proper keystroke or
          keystrokes will be shown within quotation marks, such as these
          "".  What you type in should be the keystrokes contained within
          the quote marks, but not including the quote marks.














                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 7

               Beginning with version 1.4, various look-up table functions
          have been added to the program to increase the ease of use.
          Examples of these are when the user is creating a part record and
          is at the fields for entering vendor identification numbers or
          closing out a work order and the user is at the fields for
          entering part numbers or employee identification numbers.  By
          hitting the enter key at the appropriate prompt or blank field, a
          look-up window will open up on the display.  Hitting the Home key
          will display the pertinent information for the first record in
          the database (arranged in alphabetical order).  Hitting the End
          key will go to the last record in the database.  The up and down
          arrow keys will step the user through the database one record at
          a time.  The PgUp and PgDn keys will step the user through the
          database 10 records at a time.  To avoid opening the look-up
          window or to exit from one, just hit the escape key.

               When the desired record is displayed in the look-up window,
          just hit the enter key to select the item.  You will be returned
          to the appropriate input screen with the selected item already
          shown in the highlighted field.  Hit enter again to verify the
          selection and to continue.



          UTILITIES SYSTEM
          ----------------

               The UTILITIES SYSTEM is accessed by selecting option 6 from
          the PC MECHANIC main menu.  When you enter the system, you will
          be presented with the utilities menu.  The options to select are
          as follows:

               1.  BACKUP DATABASE FILES
               2.  RESTORE DATABASE FILES
               3.  REBUILD INDEXES
               4.  CONVERT FROM PREVIOUS VERSION
               5.  CHANGE PRINTER CONTROL CODES
               6.  RETURN TO MAIN MENU

               Option 1 will perform a DOS backup of all the database
          files.  You should have several blank formatted diskettes
          available to do this.  As the size of the databases grow, you
          will need additional diskettes.  The disks should be labelled in
          sequence, ie:Backup #1, Backup #2, Backup #3, etc.  It is VERY
          IMPORTANT that you keep the disks in sequence.  YOU should also
          do the backup operation EVERY DAY.  It doesn't take very long and
          will save your skin one day when your hard disk decides to go off
          to never-never land. It should be noted that the program is hard
          coded to backup to the "A" diskette drive.  If you have violent
          problems with this, perhaps, I can re-compile a modified version
          for you which will backup to a different drive.












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 8

               Option 2 performs a DOS restore of all the database files in
          the PC MECHANIC subdirectory.  If you ever lose your hard disk,
          or buy a new computer and want to set everything up on the new
          machine, you will be glad to have this option.

               Option 3 rebuilds all of the indexes.  I won't try to
          explain what indexes are-only that they help the system keep
          records in order.  If the indexes should get corrupted by a power
          failure or other misfortune, this option should rebuild them
          cleanly.

               Option 4 allows the user to convert from an earlier version
          of PC MECHANIC.  Before using this version for the first time,
          select the conversion option.  When it has finished, you will be
          returned to the utilities menu and you will be ready to go.

               Option 5 should be used if your printer does not support
          basic emulation of a generic EPSON printer, such as IBM or
          Okidata.  If your printer is an EPSON, or compatible, you will
          probably not have to wade through this area.  The program is set
          up with printer control codes to program printer operation for
          condensed print/3.5" form length for work orders, condensed
          print/11" form length for reports, and to reset all settings to
          default (10 characters/inch/11" form length).  If your printer is
          not an EPSON or compatible, consult your printer manual for the
          correct control codes.  For example, the control codes to set
          form length to 3.5" with an EPSON printer are Esc, C, n (where n
          is the number of lines per page).  This would equate to sending
          a string represented as CHR(27)+CHR(67)+CHR(21).

               If all of this sounds like Greek, take another look at your
          printer manual, seek out the resident computer guru at your
          company, or if you are really desperate, give me a call.  Either
          I'll straighten things out or hopelessly foul everything up.

               Option 6 returns the user to the PC MECHANIC main menu.


          INVENTORY SYSTEM
          ----------------

               To enter the inventory system, select #1 at the main menu.
          The menu selection items you will be shown are:

               1.  Enter/Modify/Delete Parts Records
               2.  Issues/Returns Transactions
               3.  Vendors Database
               4.  Purchases Records
               5.  Reports Menu
               6.  Return to Main Menu













                                     PC MECHANIC
                                        Page 9

               Enter/Modify/Delete Parts Records:

               If you want to set up the inventory system, probably the
          first area to enter is the Vendors Database.  The reason for this
          is that the vendor identification number will be needed for the
          parts records. The vendor data to enter is pretty much self-
          explanatory.  The vendor identification # is generated by the
          computer and will be needed in other parts of the program.  When
          all data inputs have been made,you will be prompted if everything
          is OK or not.  The response should be "Y" for yes or "N" for no.
          When you are satisfied with the inputs and answer "Y" to
          everything OK, the next prompt will be a blinking "MORE".  This
          is asking if you have more entries to make.  Again, the proper
          response is "Y" for yes or "N" for no.

               Assuming the vendors database has been set up, you will want
          to set up the parts records.  Select item #1 at the inventory
          system menu.  You will then be given the options to enter,
          modify, delete, or return to the previous menu.  Some notes about
          entering parts records are in order.  The Item # is a part number
          which YOU assign to each part.  You may want to start at 1 and
          sequentially number every item, or you may want to devise a
          letter and number code to describe the part.  Mfg., is the
          manufacturer.  Cat. # is the manufacturer's catalog or ordering
          number.  Location is described by storeroom (Strm.), row in the
          storeroom, shelf in the row, and bin number on the shelf.  The
          program allows for two storeroom locations.  Desc. is for a
          description of the part, and can be 2 lines of 40 characters
          each. Value is the total opening value of the item stocked.  This
          will be updated automatically as you issue material or receive
          purchases. Qty.on Hand is the quantity on hand.  Reorder at is
          the level of inventory the part quantity must fall to before it
          is reordered.  Reorder Qty. is the amount that should be
          reordered based on previous experience.  Unit price is the quoted
          price the last time the item was ordered.  This should be updated
          each order.  In the section for vendors, you only need to enter
          the vendor ID# and the system will bring up the company name of
          the vendor.  There is space to enter 3 vendors who carry the
          particular part.  At the fields for entering the vendor numbers,
          the use of the look-up window function is active.  If you don't
          have a listing of the vendors by vendor number handy, just hit
          the enter key to open up the window, step through the vendors
          database until the correct vendor is listed, and hit enter to
          select.  The look-up window will display the vendor company names
          in alphabetical order along with the vendor numbers. At the end,
          you will be prompted if everything is OK and if there are more
          entries to be made.
















                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 10

               Issues/Returns Transactions:

               The second selection choice is for transactions such as
          issues and receipts of items ordered, and also returns to the
          storeroom.  To handle receipts, a record must be set up
          previously in the purchases section of the inventory system.
          When the transactions choice is made, a sub-menu will be shown.
          The choices on this menu are parts issued, parts returned,
          receipts of items ordered, delete old transactions, and return to
          the inventory system menu.

               Issues and returns are identical in the data input screen.
          The first field is date, which defaults to the current date.
          Type over this date or hit enter to accept the date.  The next
          field is item, where you should enter the part number of the
          item.  Hitting enter at the part number field will open up a
          look-up window to select the appropriate part number.
          Description is system generated.  If you want to track the
          transaction to a work order or preventive maintenance work order,
          enter the appropriate work order number or PM work order number.
          Next, enter the quantity of the part issued or returned to stock.
          After the prompt asking if everything is OK, the average cost and
          value of the part will be displayed.  The quantity on hand and
          value of the part will be automatically updated to account for
          the transaction.

               To enter parts received, the data fields to input are date,
          purchase order number (PO#), part #, vendor ID#, and quantity
          received.  At the input for part #, the look-up window function
          is active.  The part description and vendor company name are
          generated by the computer.  If everything is OK, the value and
          updated quantity backordered will be displayed.

               To delete old transactions, you will be prompted to enter a
          cut-off date.  All transactions before this date will be deleted
          from the database.  Only use this option when you are sure you
          will not need to access the transaction information again.

               Vendors Database:

               The vendors database is used to set up information about the
          various vendors that you deal with.  Basic information includes
          vendor number, company name, address, phone number, contact, and
          principal product line.

               When updating or deleting vendors from the database, the
          user is prompted to enter the vendor number.  Either enter the
          number or hit enter to open the look-up window for selection of
          the appropriate vendor.














                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 11

               Purchases Records:

               The purchases database is used to track items ordered and
          purchases by vendor.  The data input fields are discussed below.
          Date defaults to the current system date.  Type over this or hit
          enter to accept the date.  P.O. # is the purchase order number.
          Part # is the part identification number you set up previously.
          Vendor ID is the vendor identification number.  Both the Part #
          and Vendor ID fields support look-up windows and these can be
          opened by just hitting enter at the appropriate fields.
          Description and vendor name are generated by the system.  The
          next inputs are for the quantity ordered and unit price to pay.
          Ext. Cost is the extended cost and is system generated.  The Qty.
          Backordered is is the quantity back ordered and is initially set
          equal to the quantity ordered.

               The reports menu contains selections for a number of
          inventory system reports.  The parts listing is a basic list of
          all parts by part number, description and other information.  The
          vendor listing is an alphabetic listing of vendors,
          identification numbers, contacts, and phone numbers.  The reorder
          report is a listing of all parts where the quantity on hand has
          fallen below or is equal to the reorder level.  The consumption
          report is a listing of usage over a user specified period of
          time, which also includes value of parts used.  The purchases by
          vendor report gives the breakdown over a period of time of
          purchases from each vendor.  It could be very useful to see if
          any favoritism is being shown to a particular vendor.  The
          backorder report lists those items where the date promised has
          passed and the item has not been received yet.  The final menu
          choice is to return to the inventory system main menu.

               Beginning with version 2.0 of PC MECHANIC, you can display
          most reports (some in condensed form) in addition to printer
          reports.  The display or print option uses a "Lotus" style menu
          to select the various menu choices.  Use the left & right arrow
          keys to highlight the choice and hit enter, or just hit the first
          letter of the choice.  The general options are:

               1.  Forward-page forward 10 records in the database
               2.  Backward-page backward 10 records in the database
               3.  Top-Display from the beginning of the database
               4.  End-Display from the end of the database
               5.  Print-Print the report on your printer



















                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 12

          WORK ORDER SYSTEM
          ----------------- 

               To enter the work order system, select item #2 from the main
          menu.  The work order system menu will then display the following
          choices:

               1.  Enter New Work Orders
               2.  Edit/Display/Reissue Work Orders
               3.  Close Out Completed Work Orders
               4.  Reports Menu
               5.  Delete Old Work Orders
               6.  Return to Main Menu

               To enter new work orders into the system, select item # 1.
          The first thing to happen is that the menu for setting up your
          printer will be displayed.  To print work orders in condensed
          mode and set the form length to 3.5 inches, select option #1 "SET
          UP PRINTER FOR WORK ORDERS" and hit enter.  Make sure your
          printer is turned on to avoid time out errors.  You will then see
          displayed the data input screen for entering work orders.  The
          work order number is generated by the computer and is the
          reference number you will use later to track the work order.  The
          current date is the default, so you can accept it by hitting
          enter or change it by typing over the date.  The other fields to
          input are the equipment identification number, department making
          the work request or reporting the problem, location, person
          requesting the work, and responsible trade for the job.  Priority
          can be input, as 1,2,3 or A,B,C or whatever system you may want
          to use.  The work description fields allow you to enter up to 3
          lines, each 40 characters long, which should be sufficient for
          most jobs.  When you are finished, you will be prompted if
          everything is ok.  The response should be "Y" for yes or "N" for
          no.  You will then be prompted if you want to print out the work
          order.  Again, the response to the prompt is "Y" or "N", without
          the quote marks.  Next, will be displayed a flashing prompt with
          the word "MORE".  This is the prompt asking if you have more work
          orders to input or if you are finished.  The proper response is
          "Y" or "N".  When you are finished, the BASIC printer control
          program will again be loaded into memory.  You can select option
          #3 to reset the printer to normal printing and form length.

               A word of advice is offered here to avoid future headaches.
          Make up a list of standard codes for the various trades you
          employ and another list of standard location names or
          abbreviations.  These should be used to develop consistency in
          data input and will be necessary later on when you want to
          request a report for a specific trade or location.  If an exact
          match is not made to what you request, there will be no report or
          records will be missed.  For example, if part of the time you
          enter "CA" as a trade code for carpenter, and part of the time












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 13

          you enter "CARP", the system will interpret these as 2 separate
          trades.  If you request a report for all backlogged work
          belonging to the trade "CA", all work orders entered for "CARP"
          will be overlooked.  Be careful.

               To edit, display, or reissue (reprint) a work order, select
          item #2 at the work order system menu.  The input screen is
          identical to the new work order entry screen, so there is no
          further discussion of this item needed.

               To close out completed work orders, select item # 3 from the
          work order system menu.  Enter the work order # when prompted to
          do so. You will then see the original work order data entry
          screen,however, there are some additional input fields.  Status
          should be updated to complete by entering "C" (without the quote
          marks) in the status field.  Date complete and remarks, for any
          appropriate comments are self explanatory.  There are fields to
          enter the identification numbers of up to 3 employees who
          participated in doing the job.  These are entered one at a time.
          You enter the employee's ID# and the system displays the
          employee's last name.  If you don't have the employee's
          identification number handy, just hit enter to open the look-up
          window which displays employee last names in alphabetical order
          and the associated I.D. #.  Enter the number of hours the employee
          devoted to the job and the system calculates and displays the
          labor cost associated with that particular employee.  The system
          then totals up the labor cost for the job. You can also enter up
          to 3 parts used also.  This operates in a similar manner.  Enter
          the part number, and the system displays a shortened part
          description.  The use of a look-up window for these inputs is
          also supported at this point of the program.  Enter the quantity
          used, and the system calculates and displays the part cost.
          After entering up to 3 parts used, the system totals the parts
          cost.  You will then get the familiar prompt asking if everything
          is OK or not.  Answer with "Y" or "N".  A new prompt will then be
          displayed asking if you want to automatically update the
          inventory files.  In a large operation with a full-time storeroom
          clerk, you would most likely answer "N" for no to this prompt as
          issues will probably be handled from the storeroom and tracked
          there.  For a smaller operation, I have added this option so that
          the inventory quantity and value can be reduced by the proper
          amounts without requiring the user to exit from the work order
          screen and enter the inventory system.  If you want to update the
          inventory files, enter a "Y" for yes.  Use a little caution here
          to avoid "double dipping" or deducting from inventory at the
          storeroom and when closing out the work order.  The next prompt
          will be the flashing MORE?, asking if you have more to close out.
          The familiar response is "Y" for yes or "N" for no.

               Selection of item #4 from the work order system menu will
          bring up the menu of available reports.  Item #1 of this menu is












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 14

          for a backlog listing of all work orders, sorted by trade.  Items
          #2,3, or 4 will generate a backlog report for a specific trade,
          location, or piece of equipment.  The user is prompted to enter
          the search string. Item #4, the backlog report for a specific
          piece of equipment now supports the use of the look-up window
          function for selecting the appropriate equipment.  Item # 5 is
          for the work order aging report.  By trade, this will list the
          number of work orders of different ages, ie: 0-7 days, 8-14 days,
          etc.  Items  #6&7 are for work history reports sorted by a
          specific location or piece of equipment.  The user again is
          prompted to enter the search string.  Item #7 now supports the
          look-up window function to select the equipment.  Item #8 returns
          the user to the work order system main menu.

               After a period of time, the size of the work history
          database will probably get quite sizeable.  You may determine
          that you don't need to keep this information for longer than 3
          months, 6 months, or 1 year.  To delete old work orders from the
          history database, select item #5 from the work order system main
          menu.  You will be prompted to enter a cutoff date.  All work
          orders with a completion date before the cutoff date will be
          purged from the database.  Use this option with CAUTION.
               Menu item # 6 will return the user to the PC MECHANIC main
          menu.


          PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
          -----------------------------      

               To enter the preventive maintenance system, select item # 3
          from the maintenance system main menu.  The preventive
          maintenance system menu will then display the following options.

               1.  Generic Maintenance Tasks
               2.  Define PM Requirements
               3.  Modify/Delete PM Requirements
               4.  Print Scheduled PM Work Orders
               5.  Update Completed PM/Transfer to History
               6.  PM Reports Menu
               7.  Return to Main Menu

               Selecting item #1 will take the user to the area for
          entering, deleting, or printing a listing of generic maintenance
          tasks.  I call this generic because this is where the user can
          create a look-up table of common maintenance tasks for equipment.
          For example, with few differences, a 90 day inspection for an air
          handling unit will probably be the same regardless of the
          manufacturer.  By filling in the maintenance tasks in this
          section and assigning a code, the user only needs to enter the
          code later when defining PM requirements.  If a particular piece
          of equipment has additional or different requirements, these can












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 15

          be added. The data input screen for defining the PM requirements
          will automatically pull in the list of maintenance tasks, which
          should save a great deal of typing.

               When you make the selection to enter a generic maintenance
          task, you will be prompted to enter the code.  It is suggested to
          make a letter/number combination based on the equipment and
          frequency of maintenance.  For example, a 6 month inspection for
          a chilled water pump might be coded as CHWP180, meaning chilled
          water pump and 180 days as the frequency.  Use whatever coding
          system is easiest for you.  When the input screen is displayed,
          the other data fields are for a short name or description of the
          maintenance inspection,frequency in days, and 5 lines of 40
          characters each to enter the maintenance tasks to be performed.

               For editing or deleting generic maintenance tasks, the user
          is requested to enter the maintenance code after selecting the
          appropriate menu option.  The look-up window function is also
          supported in this part of the program.  At the prompt to enter
          the maintenance code, hit the enter key if the code is not known.
          The look-up window will be opened on the screen for the user to
          step through the database and select the appropriate code.

               Menu item #2 is for defining the PM requirements.  The first
          prompt is for the user to enter a generic maintenance code or hit
          enter if this is a custom or different type of PM.  The use of a
          look-up window is supported here.  Hit the enter key to open a
          window which will display the maintenance codes alphabetically.
          The user can use the up/down arrow keys, PgUp/PgDn keys, Home, or
          End keys to step through the database of maintenance codes.  Hit
          enter to select the appropriate maintenance code. The other input
          fields are for equipment identification number, equipment name or
          description,INITIAL DUE DATE, location,responsible trade,
          frequency of maintenance in days, and the 5 lines of tasks to be
          performed.  The use of look-up windows is supported for the
          equipment identification number window.  Hit enter to open the
          window, and select the desird equipment from the description
          displayed.  The ID#, description, and location will
          automatically be inserted into the PM input screen.  A short
          explanation about the initial due date.  This is the date for the
          first time to do the required PM.  Once this has been completed,
          the program will change the due date to a due date in the future,
          based on the frequency in days.  Again, remember that if you
          entered a generic maintenance code, the frequency and 5
          maintenance task fields will automatically be filled in by the
          program.  Additionally, the PM reference number displayed on the
          monitor is generated by the computer and will be used later to
          call up specific records.

               Menu item #3 is for modifying or deleting PM requirements.
          The user is prompted to enter the appropriate PM reference












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 16

          number.  The next prompt asks the user to decide to delete or
          modify the associated PM record.  If the selection is to modify,
          the same data input screen is shown to the user as in item #2.

               To print out the scheduled PM work orders, select item #4
          from the preventive maintenance system menu.  The user will then
          be prompted to enter a start date and end date.  Typically, the
          user will want to print out all of the scheduled maintenance for
          the coming week.  So, he would enter today's date as the start
          date and a week from today or yesterday as the ending date.
          Remember that the program is designed to print out on 3.5" high
          paper and that the program will set the printer for this size
          paper and condensed print.  Many data field names will print out
          on the PM work order with a space after the name.  This is for
          the maintenance worker to fill in any appropriate information,
          such as parts used, hours spent, employee identification
          number,remarks, etc. This information will be input later when
          the completed PM work order is updated.

               Menu item #5 allows the user to update completed work orders
          and transfer the information to the PM history file.  The user is
          initially prompted to enter the PM reference number.  The record
          is called up with the same data entry screen, however, there are
          additional input fields to enter information such as status,
          parts used, hours spent, remarks, etc. The status field should be
          filled with a "C" to indicate that it has been completed.  This
          will flag the program to transfer the record to history and
          update the due date to a future date.  The user will be asked if
          he wants to update the inventory system from the update completed
          PM screen.  For a larger operation with a full time storeroom
          clerk, all transactions will probably be logged there.  For
          smaller operations, the user can input the part number and
          quantity of parts used to automatically subtract these from
          inventory and charge the cost to the PM work order.  The input of
          employee ID# and hours spent on the PM job is like the work order
          system and needs no further detailed explanation.

          There are fields to enter the identification numbers of up to 3
          employees who participated in doing the job.  These are entered
          one at a time.  You enter the employee's ID# and the system
          displays the employee's last name.  If you don't have the
          employee's identification number handy, just hit enter to open
          the look-up window which displays employee last names in
          alphabetical order and the associated I.D. #.  Enter the number
          of hours the employee devoted to the job and the system
          calculates and displays the labor cost associated with that
          particular employee.  The system then totals up the labor cost
          for the job. You can also enter up to 3 parts used also.  This
          operates in a similar manner.  Enter the part number, and the
          system displays a shortened part description.  The use of a look-
          up window for these inputs is also supported at this point of the












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 17

          program.  Enter the quantity used, and the system calculates and
          displays the part cost.  After entering up to 3 parts used, the
          system totals the parts cost.

               Menu item #6 will display the submenu of available PM
          reports.  These are:

              1.  Work completed in the last week
              2.  PM backlog by trade
              3.  PM backlog by equipment
              4.  PM backlog by due date
              5.  History for specific equipment (look-up window supported)
              6.  History for all equipment
              7.  History detailed record
              8.  PM summary list (type of PM denoted by trade & frequency)
              9.  Exit to PM menu

               Menu item #7 returns the user to the preventive maintenance
          system menu.


          EQUIPMENT DATABASE SYSTEM
          -------------------------      

               To enter the equipment database system, select choice 4 from
          the main menu.  The equipment database takes the place of a card
          system for recording nameplate and rating information on
          equipment.  The choices available from the equipment database
          system menu are as follows:

               1.  Enter Equipment Records
               2.  Update Equipment Records
               3.  Delete Equipment Records
               4.  Print Hard Copy
               5.  Print Master Equipment List
               6.  Return to Main Menu

               Selecting choice 1 or 2 will allow the user to enter new
          equipment records or to update existing records.  Most of the
          data field names are self-explanatory.  Please note that not all
          fields are applicable to every piece of equipment, so leave them
          blank where appropriate.  When the input or update screen has
          been filled in, the user will get a prompt at the bottom of the
          screen asking if everything is ok.  The correct responses are "Y"
          for yes or "N" for no.  If "N" is entered, the user can edit any
          incorrect entries.  When "Y" is finally entered, the next prompt
          will be be a flashing "MORE" also at the bottom of the screen.
          Again, the correct responses are "Y" for yes or "N" for no.

               To delete equipment records, such as when an old piece of
          equipment is removed, select choice 3 from the equipment database












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 18

          system menu.  The user is then prompted to enter the equipment
          identification number.  After deleting a record, the user is
          prompted if he desires to delete more records.  Answer "Y" or "N"
          to the flashing "MORE" prompt.

               Selection of choice 4 will allow the user to print out a
          copy of a specific equipment record.  The user is prompted to
          enter the equipment identification number.  After printing, he is
          again given the "MORE" prompt.  Answer "Y" or "N".

               For menu choices 2, 3, or 4, (update, delete, print hard
          copy) the look-up window feature is active.  At the prompt to
          enter an equipment identification number, enter the I.D. # if it
          is known, or hit enter to open the window.  You can step forward
          or backward through the database of equipment descriptions
          displayed in alphabetical order.  When the desired piece of
          equipment is displayed in the window, hit enter to select.

               Choice 5 prints a master summary listing of all equipment.
          To return to the maintenance system main menu, select choice 6
          from the equipment database system menu.


          EMPLOYEE DATABASE SYSTEM
          ------------------------

               To enter the employee database system, select choice 5 from
          the maintenance system main menu.  The next set of menu choices
          presented to the user are as follows:
               1.  Enter Employee Records
               2.  Modify Employee Records
               3.  Delete Employee Records
               4.  Display/Print Employee Listing
               5.  Display/Print Seniority Report
               6.  Display/Print Coming Review Dates Report
               7.  Display/Print Employee Work History Report
               8.  Exit to Main Menu

               To enter new employee records or modify existing records,
          select menu choice 1 or 2.  The input data fields are for
          employee last name, first name, middle initial,employee
          identification number, social security number, date of birth,
          hire date, trade, hourly pay rate, date last performance review
          was done, home telephone number, name of a person to contact in
          an emergency, and telephone number of the emergency contact
          person.  After filling in all of the fields, the user is prompted
          if everything is ok.  Enter "Y" for yes or "N" for no.  The next
          prompt is the flashing word "MORE", asking if the user has more
          records to enter or modify.  The correct response to this prompt
          is "Y" or "N".













                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 19

               To delete an employee record, select menu item 3.  The user
          is next prompted to enter the employee's identification number.

               If the user selects menu option 2 or 3 (modify or delete),
          he will be prompted to enter the employee I.D. #.  If this is not
          known, hit enter to open the look-up window which lists employees
          in alphabetical order along with the corresponding identification
          numbers.  Hit enter to select the desired employee.

               To print an alphabetical listing of all employees, select
          choice 4 from the menu.  This lists most important information
          about the employee.  This includes the identification number,
          which is needed for closing out work orders and preventive
          maintenance work orders. The seniority report can be printed out
          by selecting choice 5 from the menu.  This lists employees based
          on date of hire, starting from the employee with the most time up
          to the most recent hire.  The coming review dates report can be
          printed out by selecting choice 6 from the menu.  This prints a
          listing of all employees who had their last annual performance
          review 11 months ago or later.  This can be useful so that the
          supervisor or department head can adequately prepare for a
          meaningful review of his employees.  Choice 7 from the menu lists
          the work history for a specific employee during the past 365
          days.  The use of the look-up window function is supported here
          for selecting the employee identification number.  In the
          listing, the single character column heading with an asterisk "*"
          is for the type of maintenance work done.  A "P" stands for
          preventive maintenance.  A "C" stands for corrective maintenance.

               To exit from the employee database system and return to the
          maintenance system main menu, select choice 8.


          TIPS & POINTERS
          ---------------

               The following is a list of miscellaneous suggestions which
          you might find helpful.

               1.  On a daily or weekly basis, print a history listing by
                   location and send to the originating department to
                   indicate what work was performed for that period of
                   time.

               2.  On a daily or weekly basis, print a listing of the
                   outstanding work orders for review with the respective
                   trade supervisors or foreman.

               3.  Enter work orders as received and update as completed.

               4.  At the end of E A C H  D A Y, that's right, each day, do












                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 20

                   a backup of the PC MECHANIC subdirectory containing the
                   database and index files.

                   I can guarantee you now that someday, you are going to
                   have hard disk problems. It is not a question of if,
                   only when.  When the day arrives that your hard disk
                   decides to go off to "Never-Never Land", you will have a
                   backup on hand that  is no less current than yesterday.

               5.  On a weekly basis, print the aging report to see where
                   you stand on completing the backlog.  There should be
                   very few old work orders unless there is a good reason
                   for scheduling the work or you are waiting on parts.

               6.  On a weekly basis, print the PM jobs for the coming
                   week. This could be done Friday afternoon or Monday
                   morning.

               7.  It is suggested that you always work with the caps lock
                   key on.  I have tried to filter all keyboard input to
                   uppercase, however, it is possible I may have missed a
                   few here or there.  This will lead to consistent input
                   of your data.

               8.  Standard location names and trade codes should be
                   developed. I discussed this earlier as a means to
                   develop consistent data inputs.  You will save some
                   grief later on if you make a small effort to do this at
                   the beginning.

              9.   Backup your data files daily.  I will probably mention
                   this again because I know what it's like to wipe out a
                   hard disk.


          GETTING HELP
          ------------

               As I mentioned at the outset, I am available to assist any
          user of the PC MECHANIC, whether registered or not.  My home
          telephone number is (914) 683-5191.  If there is a real
          emergency, my wife can give out my work number, but I prefer to
          minimize this.  I can also be reached through Compuserve, where I
          maintain an account.  My user number is 71121,2014.  Leave me a
          message on Easy Plex. Finally, if you would like to write, send
          any correspondence to:

                   Michael R. Busman
                   23 Old Mamaroneck Rd., #5-O
                   White Plains, NY  10605













                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 21

               One last commercial message from the sponsors.  Please
          remember that the PC MECHANIC is available as a low-cost,
          shareware alternative to expensive, complex maintenance
          management software.  If you find it of use in your operation, do
          my wife a favor(remember the mink & diamonds fund) and register
          your copy.

               Lastly, I am always looking for comments-both favorable and
          downright nasty.  Also, I appreciate suggested enhancements.
          Have fun you grease monkeys.





















































                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 22

               You can order directly from me using the registration form
          on the next page or from the Public (Software) Library (PSL)
          by calling 1-800-2424-PSL or 713-524-6394 for orders only (call
          713-665-7017 for questions about orders) or by writing:

          PSL
          P.O. Box 35705
          Houston, TX  77235-5705

          MasterCard, Visa, Discover, and American Express accepted.  For
          technical support, contact Michael Busman at the sources listed
          above.



















































                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 23

                                  REGISTRATION FORM
                                  -----------------



          Name ____________________________

          Title ___________________________

          Company _________________________

          Address _________________________

                  _________________________

          City ____________________________     State ____     Zip _________

          Telephone _______________________


          Please register ____ copies of PC MECHANIC @ $50.00/copy for me.

          Total enclosed: $__________


          Make checks payable to: Michael R. Busman





































                                     PC MECHANIC
                                       Page 24

          HISTORY OF PC MECHANIC
          ----------------------

          Version 1.0 - Original dBASE III+/IV source code version

          Version 1.1 - Initial compiled dBASE version

          Version 1.2 - Minor bug fixes and non-cosmetic enhancements

          Version 1.3 - Added error checking, simplified installation,
                        eliminated BASIC printer program to alleviate
                        memory problems with TANDY 1000 equipment, some
                        minor bug fixes

          Version 1.4 - Added look-up table functions to various parts of
                        the program where the user is prompted or there is
                        an input field to enter data such as Employee
                        I.D.#, Vendor number, maintenance code number, part
                        number, or Equipment I.D. #.

          Version 2.0 - Added the Employee Work History Report, which was
                        requested by a user.
                      - Added the ability to display most reports, which
                        was requested by many users.
                      - Added Master Equipment List.
                      - Expanded use of look-up windows for input fields
                        and searches.
                      - Added a simple bar graph to the Work Order Aging
                        report to graphically depict the work order
                        quantities over time.




























