


                              P C O P Y



                            By  Patri-Soft

                            Norm Patriquin
                            Daniel Collier

                        (tm)  ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿ 
                        ÚÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄ¿     ³ MEMBER
                     ÄÄÄ³         ³     ³ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
                        ³  ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄ¿  ³ Association of
                        ³  ³         ÃÄÄÙ   Shareware
                        ÀÄÄ´    þ    ³    Professionals 
                     ÄÄÄÄÄÄ³    º    ³ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
                           ÀÄÄÄÄÐÄÄÄÄÙ


                        (714) 352-2820 (Voice)
                        (714) 352-2825  (Data)




                            March 15, 1991


                   Copyright 1987, 1991 by Patri-Soft



PCOPY  Version 9.0D  April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 2

                             Table of Contents


    DISCLAIMER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4

    LICENSE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4

    REGISTRATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5

    WHAT IS PCOPY ?? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7

    PCOPY FEATURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9

    COMMAND FORMAT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10

    PCOPY MENU EXPLANATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22

    WAYS TO USE PCOPY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27

    SITE LICENSE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36

    CREDIT CARD ORDERS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37

    REGISTRATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38

    ORDER FORM  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39



PCOPY  Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 3

    The program author and sole proprietor of Patri-Soft, Norman
    Patriquin,is an active member of the Association of Shareware
    Profes- sionals (ASP).  The ASP wants to make sure that the
    Shareware principle works for you.  If you are unable to resolve a
    Shareware related problem with an ASP member by contacting the
    member directly, ASP may be able to help. The ASP Ombudsman can help
    you resolve a dispute or problem with an ASP member, but does not
    provide technical support for members' products.  Please write to
    the ASP Ombudsman at P.O. Box 5786, Bellevue, WA 98006 or send a
    Compuserve message via MAIL to ASP Ombudsman 70007,3536.

                                  DISCLAIMER

    Patri-Soft hereby disclaims all warranties relating to this product,
    whether express or implied, including without limitation any implied
    warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
    Patri-Soft cannot and will not be liable for any special,
    incidental, consequential, indirect or similar damages due to loss
    of data or any other reason, even if Patri-Soft or an authorized
    Patri-Soft agent has been advised of the possibility of such
    damages.  In no event shall the liability for any damages ever
    exceed the price paid for the license to use software, regardless of
    the form and/or extent of the claim.  The user of this program bears
    all risk as to the quality and performance of the software.

                                    LICENSE

    PCOPY is a Shareware product.  As such, it is made available to the
    general computing public for evaluation.  Users are licensed to
    operate PCOPY on their personal computers for the purpose of test
    and evaluation on a trial basis for a limited trial period.  It is
    not possible to reasonably define any definitive limits of a fair
    and equitable time period for evaluation, therefore it is left to
    the user's judgment and sense of fair play as to the time required
    to make a decision as to its usefulness.  If the user decides the
    program is not of sufficient merit to warrant purchase through
    registration with Patri-Soft, the program should be removed from
    their personal computer.  Otherwise, if the program is deemed useful
    and is in regular use on the user's personal computer system,
    registration with Patri-Soft is required.

    Registered users are those users that elect to pay for PCOPY and
    register by payment with Patri-Soft.  By virtue of registration and
    payment for the program, registered users are granted a license to
    continue to utilize the program on their personal computer for as
    long as they choose.  This license authorizes the user to use the
    program on any personal computer system he or she may own so long as
    the program is operated on only one computer system at a time.

    Site licenses for use of PCOPY on multiple computers are available
    upon request at a reduced fee that is based upon the number of
    single machines licensed for use.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 4


                               REGISTRATION

    PCOPY is sole property of Patri-Soft Shareware products. The
    Shareware version, and ONLY that version, may be freely copied and
    transferred to individual parties for evaluation purposes.  The
    Shareware version, and ONLY that version, may be posted on Bulletin
    Board Systems (BBS) for electronic access as long as NO FEE is
    charged for its distribution except for private BBS operations that
    charge a regular user subscrip- tion fee.  Computer information
    services such as Compuserve (CIS), Genie, etc., are authorized to
    post this product for subscriber access. The Shareware version of
    PCOPY may NOT be distributed on diskette by any disk
    distributor/vendor that charges more than $12.00 for the diskette
    upon which the program and attendant files are recorded without
    written consent from Patri-Soft.

    PCOPY is a fully functional Shareware product.  Shareware is a
    computer program distribution/marketing method that permits
    potential buyers to thoroughly try the program prior to purchase. It
    is NOT free and it is not in the Public Domain.  If, after
    evaluating the program, you find it to be useful enough to use on a
    regular basis, you are expected to pay for it by registering with
    Patri-Soft.  The registration fee is $20.00 and the registered
    version, which is NOT distributed as Shareware, will not contain the
    opening Shareware screen nor the closing messages.  You will also
    receive a Printed manual with instructions for the operation
    of PCOPY including many examples of the use of the many features,
    and illustrations of all the various features in use.


    You may register PCOPY in one of four ways:

    1) By mail with check/money order/credit card (Visa/Mastercard only)
       to: Patri-Soft, P.O. Box 8263 San Bernardino, CA 92412

       CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS MUST INCLUDE 6.0% STATE SALES TAX!

    2)  You may call Patri-Soft (714-352-2825 1200/14400, 24 hours a day)
        and order online using your credit card.

    3) VISA/Mastercard orders are also accepted through telephone orders.
         Call Public Software Library: 800-242-4775 or 713-665-7017 to
         order.


PCOPY  Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page  5


    The Patri-Soft Shareware Products BBS operates 24 hours per day, 7
    days per week, open to all callers. For extended access, MUST log on
    and leave a comment to the sysop to the effect that you are a
    registered user and desire access.  The author can also be reached
    on CIS via PPN 76347,2477 (please use MAIL).

    The Shareware version of PCOPY may be freely copied and passed on
    to other individual users for their evaluation.

    We support our software.  One of the great strengths of the
    Shareware concept is the interaction between the program's authors
    and its users. Many of the features contained in PCOPY are the
    result of user input. If you have a problem evaluating this program
    or want to make a suggestion, comment, or complaint, please contact
    us immediately.  Even after registering PCOPY, if you later
    determine that it is unsuitable for your use, you may contact us for
    a refund.  It is not necessary that you be a registered user to
    contact us for technical support.  Technical support will be
    available through the U.S mail, telephone, or the Patri-Soft BBS.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 6



                               P C O P Y



               Copy and Move files intelligently and safely
                       with a variety of options...





                                P C O P Y
                                ---------

   PCOPY is an advanced replacement for the DOS COPY command, one of the
   most used of the DOS commands.  Unfortunately, the DOS COPY abilities
   are very limited and are not sufficient for many disk maintenance
   chores.  PCOPY is similar to the DOS COPY command in that it copies
   file data between disks and hard disk directories.  In addition,
   PCOPY provides intelligent file selection and processing options.
   PCOPY options allow you to use a single PCOPY command to perform a
   function that would require many complex DOS COPY commands.

   PCOPY also provides a safer way to copy files than that provided by
   the DOS COPY command.  It allows you to copy only newer files or
   update a directory with the contents of another.  PCOPY will never
   allow you to overlay a file unknowingly.

   PCOPY allows you to specify standard DOS wildcard pathnames in the
   source file specifications, and standard pathnames for the target
   directory specification.

   PCOPY attempts to anticipate your needs and then help you accomplish
   your intent.  For instance, if PCOPY determines that the target
   directory name does not exist, it will ask you if it is to be created.
   If you respond <YES>, PCOPY will create the directory.  With the /SAve
   option, if you are about to overlay a file with another file with the
   same name, you will be asked if the older duplicate file is to be
   renamed with a version number.




   The PMOVE Option of PCOPY
   -------------------------

   PMOVE is an option of the PCOPY command you can use to move files
   between disks and directories on disks.  PMOVE combines the functions of
   DOS COPY and DELETE commands to simplify the moving of files.  In
   addition to just moving files, PMOVE also allows you to specify
   selection criteria to better qualify the files to be moved.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

   PMOVE automatically determines the environment in which the move is
   requested and determines if the data must be physically moved or if it
   can be moved by simply renaming it.  The file will be moved by renaming
   it if the move is to another directory on the same disk device.  This is
   much faster than physically moving the file.  In addition, it reduces
   free space fragmentation, and allows you to move very large files
   between directories when they could not otherwise be moved with DOS COPY
   because of insufficient space.

   The only difference between PCOPY and PMOVE is that PMOVE removes the
   file from the source location after it has been successfully copied to
   the target location.

   PMOVE is implemented as a .BAT file that invokes PCOPY with the /X
   parameter.


   PCOPY Features
   -------------

      *   Copies files to and from any disk or directory.

      *   Allows you to save older versions of files with new names
          before replacing them.

      *   Moves files by copying them or renaming them to the new
          location.

      *   Deletes the original file if /X is specified.

      *   Creates target directories if needed.

      *   Makes sure the DOS archive flag is set correctly for each file
          as it is moved.

      *   Preserves the DOS date and time for each file moved.

      *   Allows you to pause processing at any time by pressing any
          keyboard key.  Once stopped, the program can be terminated by
          pressing <ESC>.

      *   Provides file selection and processing control options to
          tailor the move process to your own needs.

      *   Allows commands to be tested so you may be sure that commands
          are specified as you desire.

 PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991 Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 8
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

      *   Copies updated files to a special disk or directory.

      *   If there is not sufficient space on the current target disk,
          PCOPY allows you to place another disk in the drive and
          continue processing.  This lets you copy groups of files
          larger than disk size to other computers.

      *   Start with a specific file in a directory.

      *   End with a specific file in a directory.

      *   Process files based on the date stored in the directory entry.

      *   Warns you before overlaying a file unless specific parameters
          indicating otherwise are specified.

      *   Checks target disk for available space before starting to copy
          files.  This saves time when the copy will not be able to
          complete.

      *   Gives you constant status of the progress of the command.

      *   Runs with windows or using standard DOS screen output.

      *   Format new floppy disks as they are needed by pressing <F3> at
          any prompt.

      *   Process one directory, a single directory subtree or all
          directories on a disk (/S).

      *   Allows you to indicate that multiple input disks are to be
          used and prompts for the next one after each disk is
          processed.

      *   Create a series of output disks filled efficiently with files
          from the source location.    DOS ERRORLEVEL set to indicate
          error conditions.  PCOPY may be used in .BAT files to copy
          files and you may confirm results are good.

      *   Special wildcard matching allows you to select all files with
          specific text in filename.




PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page  9
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   PCOPY Command and Parameters
   ----------------------------

   PCOPY lets you to specify command parameters to qualify the copy
   criteria.  These parameters are optional.  If no parameters are
   specified, PCOPY performs in a manner similar to the DOS COPY command,
   except that it prompts you before overlaying files.  The command format
   and parameters are described below.


      PCOPY from_file [to_file] [(/ parameters)]


   [from] Enter the DOS file specification for the directory and file names
          to be moved.  The filename portion of the file specification may
          contain wildcard characters documented by DOS (* and ?).

          You may also specify special pattern selection for text.  For
          example, *DISK*.* would select all files that have the characters
          "DISK" anywhere in the first portion of the filename. *DI*S*K*.*
          type specification also works.

          You may optionally supply a file containing a list of input file
          names.  Create a file containing a filename or complete pathname
          on each line.  Specify the name of this file as the source
          filename to PCOPY and add the "@" character before the name.  The
          list of files will be processed as if they were all specified on
          the input command line.

          For file list processing, PCOPY understands the output of the DOS
          DIR command.  You may use the DOS redirection feature to direct
          DIR output to a file, edit the file to add or remove entries, and
          then provide this to PCOPY as input.  For example:


              DIR A: >DIRLIST
              (edit dirlist)
              PCOPY @DIRLIST B:


   [to]   Enter the DOS file specification for the directory and filename
          to be copied to.  If the "to" specification is not entered, files
          will be moved to the current directory.

          If a single level name is supplied as the last part of the target
          file specification, PCOPY will search for a directory that
          matches the specified name.  If it does not exist, PCOPY will
          prompt you to determine if the name is a filename or a directory
          name.  To avoid this prompt, append the name with  a \ if it is a
          directory name, or a . to indicate it is a file name.  For
          example:


          PCOPY *.* C:\DIRNAME\    PCOPY *.* C:\FILENAME.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 10
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   /A     Archive.  Selects only files that have been marked updated by
          DOS.  This flag is updated by DOS whenever a file is processed
          with an intent to change or create new data.

   /AP    APpend.  All source files selected will be concatenated and
          placed together in a single output file.  The output file will be
          given the name of the first or only selected input file, or the
          target filename specified.

          If a target filename already exists when append is  specified,
          all source files copied will be appended to the  target  file.
          To cause an already existing target file  to  be  replaced by the
          copied files, also specify the /R parameter.

          To combine 3 files into one with /AP, use a command  like  the
          following:


          PCOPY FILE1,FILE2,FILE3 NEWFILE /AP/R



   /AZ    Append text files removing CTRL-Z characters.  Like /AP except
          ctrl-Z characters will be removed from the end of all but the
          last file copied.

   /B     Backup.  When specified, the DOS ARCHIVE attribute is reset after
          a file has been copied.

   /BA    BAtch processing.  Normally, PCOPY will pause if you press any
          key during processing. This can interfere with programs that
          store keystrokes in the keyboard buffer for subsequent activity.
          The /BA parameter sets "no-windows" mode and disables the "key
          press" check to leave stored keystrokes undisturbed.

   /BW    Black and white.  Forces PCOPY to use monochrome colors even when
          it detects a color display environment.

   /CD:xxx
          This parameter allows PCOPY to invoke any command of your choice
          for each file PCOPY selects.  With this parameter, PCOPY will not
          copy your data.  It simply becomes a file selection utility.

          To use this parameter you must supply the command PCOPY is to
          execute.  To be compatible with DOS command line option
          specifications, you must use special substitution characters to
          build a command to your specifications.  The following special
          characters are used:

          #   Is replaced with the full pathname of the file to be
              processed.

          $   Is replaced with the filename of the file selected.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 11
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          @   Is replaced with the target filename PCOPY would have copied
              the file to, if the COPY operation was active.

          [   Is replaced with a single space character.

          ]   Is replaced with a backslash character (\).

          }   Is replaced with a slash (/) character. This must be used to
              allow a command to include / parameters, since PCOPY will
              interpret a slash as one of its own parameters.

   Example of /CD Parameter


   The following example shows how PCOPY can be used to drive an EDIT
   command with variable parameters:


      PCOPY *.c/d:)1jan89/cd:EDIT[#[}F[}pf:]log


   Assuming file C:\COMP\TEST.C was selected, the following command would
   result:


      EDIT C:\COMP\TEST.C /F /PF:\LOG


   To execute the command, PCOPY invokes a second copy of the DOS command
   processor.  When the /CD parameter is used, PCOPY forces operation
   without windows to eliminate screen flashing between commands.


   /CF:path
          This parameter alters the meaning of the /CD parameter.  When
          specified with a full DOS pathname (including the filename), it
          causes PCOPY to write all generated commands to the specified
          file.  The commands will not be executed by PCOPY.  This allows
          you to generate a .BAT file that can be modified and executed at
          a later time.

          For example, to generate commands and place them in batch file
          DOIT.BAT.


   PCOPY *.c/d:)1jan89/cd:EDIT[#[}F[}pf:]log /CF:DOIT.BAT


   /C2 /C3    Specify /C2 or /C3 to use different colors when PCOPY is used
              with windows operation.  To make this color change permanent,
              specify the parameter in the DOS environment variable.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 12
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   /D:[(]xxx date

          Select files based on their last update date. This parameter may
          include a date or a number of days value, and optionally a
          condition modifier that changes the use of the date or number of
          days specified.

          When xxx contains a valid date, the date is compared to the last
          update date of the file, contained in its directory entry.  The
          file is selected if the condition specified by the condition
          modifier is met.  The condition modifier meanings are:

              (  File date is older than that specified.

              )  File date is newer than that specified.

              =  File date is equal to that specified.

          If the condition modifier is not specified, ) is assumed.

          Date values may be specified in any of the following formats:


              MM/DD/YY      MM-DD-YY       DDMMMYY
              12/31/80      12-31-80       31DEC80


          If xxx contains a numeric value instead of a valid date, that
          positive number is used to calculate a date value a number of
          days prior to the current date.  Then that date is used as in the
          calculation above.

          The /D: parameter may  be  specified  twice to  select  files
          between two dates  (date ranges).   /D:(1FEB90/D:)1MAR90

          When two dates are specified, a file's date must qualify
          selection based on both date parameters.  Specify the /DO
          parameter to indicate an OR condition between the dates. This
          will allow any file meeting either date parameter to be selected
          for processing.

   /D-    Delete all files on target drive before starting copy.

   /D2    Add files to those already on the first output disk.  Then delete
          all files from subsequent disks provided before copying to them.
          Use /D2 when you want to append files to a set of already
          existing disks.  This parameter allows you to continue backing up
          to a partially used disk and then reuse disks containing old
          unwanted backup files.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 13
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   /DC & DCA
          Directory Copy.  PCOPY will create a duplicate directory on the
          output disk for every directory processed on the source disk.
          Directories are only created when files are to be copied to them.
          See also the /S option. This is useful for copying all files and
          directories from one disk to another.

          Specify /DCA (Directory Copy-All) to copy all directories from
          source to target drive, even when no files will be moved to the
          new directory.

   /DL    Same as /DC except that only the last node of the source
          directory is copied to the target pathname specified.

   /DO    Specify when two /D: date parameters are used.  Indicates either
          date parameter may be met to qualify a file for processing.  See
          also the /D: parameter.

   /DR:xxx
          Drive.  Use to process multiple disk drives. /DR assumes the
          presence of the /S parameter, which indicates to process all
          directories on the source disks.  If you are using PCOPY for
          backup, this lets you process all disk drives with a single
          command.

          The following command will copy all modified files from hard
          drives C:, D:, and E:, to the floppy disk in drive A:.  The /D2
          parameter will ensure each new output disk is cleared of all
          files before it is written to.


              PCOPY *.* A: /DR:CDE/A/D2


   /DS    Same as /DC except that only the current directory level, and all
          its subordinate levels, are copied to the target directory.  The
          target directory may contain a pathname with multiple directory
          levels, so you can copy one directory structure below another
          directory structure.

   /DX    When target names are single level names with no extensions,
          PCOPY will ask you if the name refers to a directory or to a new
          file to be created.  If you specify this parameter, PCOPY assumes
          names without extensions are new directory names.

   /DY    Synchronize source and target directory files. Before copying the
          first file to any directory, PCOPY will determine if any files
          exist in the target directory but not on the source directory.
          If so, PCOPY will remove those files from the target directory.
          Use this parameter when you want to update one directory or disk
          to be exactly like another.

   /E     Select and move only files that exist in both the source and
          target directories.  This allows you to replace all duplicate
          named files.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 14
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   /EQ    Designed for batch file operation.  Use this parameter to prevent
          PCOPY from requiring you to press a key to terminate processing
          (Exit Quick).

          Note: Previous versions of PCOPY supported this option using the
          /EX. Parameter.

   /EX    Exclude files.  The exclude facility allows you to  provide a
          list of pathname and filename specifications that are to be
          excluded from PCOPY processing. Since searching through data on
          your hard disk requires extensive processing and disk read time,
          excluding files from the process will save you time, and will
          reduce the number of false matches displayed for your requests.

          The exclude facility is implemented with two actions.  First, you
          will need to create  an exclude specification file and place it
          in the same directory  where  PCOPY is installed on your hard
          disk.  This file will contain the names of all the files and
          paths to be excluded.  Name the file PCOPY.EXC.

          You may specify DOS pattern names to exclude groups of files with
          a single specification. Like DOS, use the '*' to indicate the
          last part of a filename or filename extension may be any set of
          characters.  Also like DOS, use the '?' to indicate that any
          single position of a filename may be any character.

          In addition  to  DOS,  two  additional pattern  features  are
          available.  You may place an '*' anywhere in the  filename  to
          indicate any set of characters may exist in this point in  the
          name.  For pathnames, you may place an '**' at the  end  of  a
          directory path specification  to  indicate  the  specification
          applies to the specified directory and all subordinate
          directories.  Using '**', you can exclude an entire path with a
          single specification.

          Following are examples:


              1. *.EXE
              2. *.COM
              3. TEST*.*
              4. *TEST*.*
              5. DO?FIX.*
              6. PC*XX.*
              7. C:\DOS\*.*
              8. \TEST\*.*
              9. D:\GAMES**\*.*


          Explanations for the above examples:

              1. Excludes all filenames  with  the extension  .EXE  from
                 processing.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 15
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

              2. Excludes all filenames ending with extension .COM.

              3. Excludes all filenames beginning with the letters "TEST"
                 from processing.

              4. Excludes all  filenames  having  the characters  "TEST"
                 anywhere in the first portion of the filename.

              5. Exclude files having 'DO' as the first 2  characters  of
                 the filename,  and 'FIX'  as  the  4th,  5th,  and  6th
                 filename characters.  The 3rd character of the  filename
                 may be any character.

              6. Exclude files having a name beginning  with  the  2
                 characters  PC and  where  the  first  portion  of  the
                 filename ends with the characters 'XX'.   Any  0  to  4
                 characters may exist between the 'PC' and  'XX'  in the
                 first portion of the filename.

              7. Exclude all files from the DOS directory on drive C:.

              8. Exclude all files from the TEST directory  existing  on
                 any drive searched.

              9. Exclude all files from the D:\GAMES\ directory and  also
                 exclude all files and directories subordinate to the GAMES
                 directory.

          Activating exclude --

              Exclude will only be  functional when the /EX command
              parameter is specified. When /EX is specified, you must have
              a valid exclude file.  PCOPY will not continue without one.
              If you wish exclude to be active during all executions,
              specify /EX as part of the PCOPY= DOS environment variable.
              See later in the documentation for a description of this
              feature.

   /F:fileFirst.  Do not start processing until the specified filename is
                  encountered in the source directory.  This parameter is
                  useful for restarting a move or copy that has been
                  terminated.  You may specify DOS pattern name characters
                  * and ? to identify the file to begin processing.

   /FI    Fill.  Fill output disks as efficiently as possible.  Normally
          files are copied in the sequence in which they are found in the
          source directory.  If a large file cannot be copied onto the
          output disk, a new disk is requested even though there may be
          enough space left on the output disk to hold other smaller files.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 16
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          The /FI parameter causes files to be copied in descending size
          sequence.  When the next file will not fit on the output disk,
          PCOPY searches for another file that will fit on the disk before
          requesting a new output disk. When a new disk is placed in the
          drive, PCOPY begins processing the larger files again.
          Eventually, all files requested will be copied.

   /IFA:pathname
          Check to determine that the source file does not already exist in
          an alternate directory before processing it.  If it does not
          exist, processing will continue.  Use just like IFP specified
          below.

   /IFP:pathname
          Determine if the source file to be copied already exists in the
          pathname specified by IFP.  If it does exist, process the file.
          If it does not exist, skip the file.  For example,


              PCOPY *.BAT \newdir/IFP:\testdir


          copies files from the current directory to \NEWDIR only if each
          file already exists in \TESTDIR.

   /L:fileLast.
          Stop processing after the specified filename is encountered in
          the scan of the directory.  The file specified will be processed
          if it matches selection criteria.  You may specify DOS pattern
          name characters * and ? to identify the file to begin processing.

   /LG    LoG activities.  PCOPY will create a disk log of all actions it
          takes.  This is useful if you are using PCOPY as a backup system.
          The log will help you locate the disk on which a file has been
          backed up.

          The log file will be named PCOPY.LOG.  For DOS versions 3.0 or
          later, the log will be created in the same directory from which
          PCOPY is executed.  Other DOS versions will put the log in the
          current directory.

          If the log does not exist, PCOPY will create it.  If the log does
          exist, PCOPY will add to it. To begin a new log, delete PCOPY.LOG
          before running PCOPY.

   /M     More.  Stop the screen from scrolling past the end without user
          intervention.

   /ME    MErge.  Works like using /U and /X parameter to move the most
          current files from one directory into another.  In addition, it
          deletes all the files that are not moved.  This effectively
          merges the most current files from two directories into a single
          directory.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 17
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   /MU    MUltiple.  Process multiple input disks.  After the first input
          disk is processed, PCOPY will prompt you for additional disks.
          Indicate <Y> to process more disks or <N> to terminate
          processing.

   /N     New files.  Only move files that do not already exist on the
          target directory.  If the file already exists, do not move it.

   /NA    No Archive.  Only process files that do not have the DOS ARCHIVE
          attribute set in the directory entry.  With this parameter
          specified, PCOPY will only process those files that have already
          been backed up.  Files not backed up will not be processed.

   /NP    No Pause.  Use when you have made the /P parameter the default
          action with the SET PCOPY=/P command in the DOS environment, and
          want to override it.

   /NW    No Windows.  PCOPY will not use windows during processing.  All
          screen output will be done through standard DOS facilities.

   /O:filename-list
          Omit.  Specify a list of filename patterns that are to be omitted
          (excluded) from PCOPY processing.  If multiple filename patterns
          are specified, separate them with commas.  For example:


              /O:*.BAK,*.EXE,TEST*.*


   /P     Pause before each file is moved and ask for approval to process
          it.

   /R     Replace any duplicate files on the target disk or directory.
          PCOPY will replace files regardless of file dates and times.

   /RD    Reset Date.  Normally PCOPY retains the original date and time of
          a file when copying it.  With /RD specified, the copied file will
          have the current date.

   /RE    REgister the program.  Use this option to register your copy of
          the PCOPY utility.  You will need to have the registration number
          and code that is sent to after you request registration.

          When you specify this parameter, part of the registration screen
          also allows you to modify the windows option permanently.  If you
          do not want windows during processing, use this option to change
          the windows program option. You do not need to be registered to
          change this information.

   /RO    Read Only.  PCOPY is just like DOS COPY when it enounters
          RO files.  PCOPY will copy the file, but does not copy the
          Read Only attribute.  Using /RO places the Read Only attribute
          on the target file.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 18
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   /S     System.  If a source directory is supplied, that directory and
          all subordinate directories will be processed.  If no source
          directory is specified, all directories on the disk will be
          processed.

   /SA    SAve.  Instead of overlaying already existing files with
          duplicate names, PCOPY renames the file in the target directory
          with a version number before the new file is copied.  This
          ensures that no data is lost.  This facility can be used to save
          successive versions of a file in a directory.

          If the file has an extension name, the last two characters of the
          extension are replaced with a number from 01 to 99, depending on
          the next available number.  PCOPY determines the next available
          number by looking in the directory for other files with similar
          names. /SF    System Files.  Normally, PCOPY skips files marked
          with the DOS SYSTEM attribute. Using /SF causes SYSTEM files to
          be selected for processing.

   /SHx   File sharing options.

          /SHA   Ignore file sharing and copy all files.

          /SHR   Allow files opened for read to be
                 copied.

          /SHN   Disallow all file sharing.

   /SP    Split files.  /SP indicates PCOPY is to split a file onto another
          disk if there is insufficient room on the first disk.

   /SP:nnn
          Split a file nnn characters into the file.  If disk space
          permits, both parts of the split file will remain in the target
          directory.

   /SPL:nnn
          Split a file at line number nnn.  This can be useful for breaking
          a file into parts for editing.

      Split File Parameters

          You may split a file into two or more parts with PCOPY.  This is
          useful for copying files larger than a diskette will hold, or for
          dividing files into smaller parts for editing.  PCOPY identifies
          the file parts by replacing the second character of the file's
          extension with a number.  For example, PCOPY.EXE could be split
          into PCOPY.E1E and PCOPY.E2E.

          The time field of the first part of a split file holds the
          replaced extension character.  For this reason, PCOPY can only
          automatically rejoin an unmodified split file.  Just reference
          the first part of the split file and the rest will be copied.
          You may also rejoin files using DOS COPY or PCOPY explicit
          commands on each part of a split file, as follows:

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 19
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          Rejoining Split File with DOS COPY:

          COPY /B FILENM.E1E+FILENM+E2E FILENM.EXE



          Rejoining Split File with PCOPY:

          PCOPY A:\FILENM.E1E,A:\FILENM.E2E FILENM.EXE/SP

   !!  IMPORTANT!  PCOPY cannot split files into more than NINE parts   !!

   /SS:nnn
          Terminate processing when the source drive's freespace reaches
          the value specified by the /SS  parameter.  Use when moving files
          from one drive to another using the  /X parameter. The command
          PCOPY C:*.* D: /X/SS:1000000 will cause PCOPY to move files from
          drive C: to drive D: until the freespace on source drive C: is
          greater than or equal to 1,000,000 characters.


   /ST:nnn
          Terminate processing when the target drive's freespace becomes
          less than or equal to the value specified by the /ST: parameter.
          The command PCOPY C:*.* d: /ST:500000 will cause PCOPY to copy
          files to target drive D: until drive D: has less than or equal to
          500,000 characters freespace.


   /SZ: [(] [)] nnn
          Select a file based on its size.  The ( indicates that files less
          than the indicated size are to be selected.  The ) indicates to
          select files greater than the size.  If neither is specified, (
          is assumed.

   /T     Test.  Test the command without actually updating any files.
          Issue messages to indicate what will happen if the command is
          executed without the /T parameter.

   /T:[(][)][=]xxx
          Time.  Select files based on the relationship between their last
          update time and the time specified in the command.  The /T:
          parameter may also contain an operator that reverses or modifies
          the meaning of the time specified, just like the date parameter.

   Examples of /T:xxx Parameter


   1. Process files updated before 11:20 a.m.


          /T:(11:20a or  /T:(11:20

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 20
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   2. Process files updated before 11:20 p.m.


          /T:(11:20p or  /T:(23:20     --> military
                         time


   3. Process files updated after 11:20 p.m.


          /T:)11:20p



   4. Process files updated within 60 seconds after 11:21
      p.m.


          /T:=11:21p


   5. Leading zeros in hour may be omitted.


          /T:)1:20


   /TF    Test First.  Works similar to the /T parameter but after test
          processing is complete, PCOPY will ask you if you want to execute
          the command as if the /T parameter were not present.  If you
          respond <Y>, the command will be executed and files will actually
          be processed.

   /U     Update files.  Only copy files that do not exist on the target
          directory or duplicate filenames that are newer than their
          counterparts on the target directory or disk.  Specifying this
          option results in the most current version of each selected file
          being in the target directory.

   /V     Verify.  Use the DOS VERIFY option while copying data.  This
          causes all data to be reread after it is written to disk to
          ensure it was written properly.

   /WH    WHy.  Indicate why files are not selected for processing.
          Normally PCOPY will not show file names that are not selected for
          processing. Specifying /WH will cause PCOPY to display a message
          indicating why any file was not selected for processing.

   /WT    Wait.  Wait for disk to be mounted before beginning processing.
          This parameter is intended primarily for systems with floppy
          disks.  Before beginning the copy process, PCOPY will ask you to
          place the proper disks in the drives.  This allows you to have
          PCOPY on a different disk than the disks being processed.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 21
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   /X     Move files.  This parameter changes PCOPY's function to move
          files instead of copying them.  After the file is copied, it will
          be deleted from the source location.  If the file is moved is to
          another directory on the same disk, the directory entry for the
          file is updated, but the actual data is not moved. This provides
          for the fastest move possible.



   PCOPY Menu Operation
   --------------------


   When you start PCOPY without command line specifications it displays a
   menu for entering copy specifications.  Three menus are available for
   specification of options.  You proceed forward and backwards through the
   menus by pressing the <PgUp> and <PgDn> keys.  Once you are completed
   specifying options, press <F10> to start processing.  Press <ESCape> at
   any time to exit from PCOPY.  If you need PCOPY help for batch
   operation, press <F1>.

   You may save a particular combination of menu specifications for use at
   a later time by assigning copy profile names to them.  PCOPY saves up to
   four different copy profiles.  To use these in a subsequent execution of
   PCOPY, simply select one of the saved names from the menu.  All options
   on the menus will be set to reflect the contents of the saved profile
   options.

   Menu options are specified in one of two ways.  First, you may be asked
   to key specific parameter information into parameter fields.  Second,
   you select toggle options by positioning the highlight bars over options
   specified and pressing the <Enter> key. PCOPY will only allow compatible
   options to be specified, so turning on some options may automatically
   deactivate others.  You see this happen when watching highlighted
   options.

   Use the up and down arrow keys, or the tab keys, to move from option to
   option.  A short help line is provided at the bottom of the display to
   assist you in understanding each option.  It changes as you move the
   cursor from option to option on the display.


PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 22
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        PCOPY MENU (1 of 3)
                        -------------------
   Copy Profile
   ------------
          An area is provided for you to provide an optional copy profile
          name to be associated with these parameters.  Provide a 1-8
          character name.  The parameters specified for this process will
          be saved and associated with this profile name.

          To the right of the name field are names for up to four copy
          profiles previously saved.  To use the parameters of any one of
          these profiles, press <1>, <2>, <3>, or <4>. The menu will
          automatically change to reflect the saved specifications.


   From Path
   ---------
          Enter the file specification for files to be copied. The same
          rules apply as for command line specifications.  See that section
          of this document for details.  Following are examples:

              C:\DIRNAME\*.EXE
              \DIRNAME\*.EXE
              \DIRname
              *.exe

   Drives
   ------
          Enter additional drives to be searched for the path specification
          in From Path above.

   To Path
   -------
          Specify the target location where files are to be copied.
          Following are examples:

              C:
              C:\DIRNAME
              C:\DIRNAME\FILENAME

   Process Options?
   ----------------
      COPY  MOVE  TEST  VERIFY WRITES

          Highlight the MOVE or COPY action to take. TEST mode causes PCOPY
          to execute without really copying data. Use TEST to check that
          your parameters are correct (/TF ,/X, /V).

   Multiple Directories?
   ---------------------
      ENTIRE DISK  ALL SUBORDINATE  DIRECTORIES

          Indicate what directories are to be read to find files to be
          processed. SUBORDINATE DIRECTORIES indicates to read the current
          directory and all of its subordinate directories to find files to
          process (/S, /DS).

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 23
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Directory Actions?    CREATE NEW  CREATE ALL
   ------------------    CREATE/ADD  LASTNODE  MERGE
                         SYNCHRONIZE

          Specify actions to be taken at the directory level.

              CREATE NEW --     Automatically create directories needed on
                                the output disk (/DC)

              CREATE ALL --     Automatically create directories for every
                                directory read on the source disk (/DCA).

              LASTNODE   --     Use the last directory level from the
                                source disk, and append it to the directory
                                name on the target disk.  This creates a
                                new directory structure under the target
                                directory specification (/DL).

              MERGE      --     Merge files from the source specification
                                into the target directory. Delete old or
                                exact duplicate files from the source
                                location.  Replace newer duplicate files on
                                the target location. (/ME).


   File Filtering?   NEW & MORE RECENT FILES  ONLY NEW
   ---------------   FILES  PAUSE/ASK FOR EACH FILE
                     MARKED FOR BACKUP  READONLY
                     HIDDEN  SYSTEM

          Indicate selection criteria for files to be
          processed:

              NEW           --  Copy files that do not exist on the target
                                directory and files that exist but are
                                newer.

              ONLY NEW      --  Process files that do not already exist on
                                the target directory (/N)>

              PAUSE/ASK     --  Stop and prompt for approval before
                                processing each file (/P)/

              MARKED BK     --  Process files that have been modified sine
                                they were previously backed up (/A).

              READONLY      --  Process files that having their readonly
                                attribute set (/RO).


              HIDDEN        --  Process files that have their hidden
                                attribute set (/SF).

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 24
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

              SYSTEM        --  Process files that have their system
                                attribute set (/SF).

   The second PCOPY menu.  Access this menu by pressing <PgDn> from the
   first PCOPY menu.


                The second menu of PCOPY options


   LIST FILES NOT PROCESSED

          Show filenames matching the filename criteria, but were not
          processed for other reasons.  Indicates filename and the criteria
          that caused it to be skipped (/WH).


   SET DOS FILE CHANGED INDICATOR AFTER COPY

          After copying the file reset the DOS attribute indicating the
          file needs backup (/BA).


   SET DOS FILE DATE TO TODAY AFTER COPY

          After copying the file, set the date and time on the file to the
          current date (/RD).


   FILL OUTPUT DISKS EFFICIENTLY WITH BEST FIT

          Process files in a sequence that will allow them to efficiently
          fit on output diskettes. PCOPY will find files to completely fill
          a disk before going on to additional disks (/FI).


   ERASE OUTPUT DISKS BEFORE USING   ERASE ON ALL BUT FIRST

          Erase all files on target disks before copying files to them.
          'ALL BUT FIRST' is normally used during backup to add files to
          the first backup disk used (the last one used for the previous
          backup run), and then erase all subsequent disks before copying
          to them (/D- , /D2).


   APPEND COPIED FILES TOGETHER IN ONE OUTPUT FILE

          All files being copied are to be merged into one output file.
          The output file is the filename specified on the target
          specification (/AP).


PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 25
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   FILES MAY BE DIVIDED INTO PARTS ACROSS DISKS

          Split files onto multiple disks if there is not enough room on
          the target diskette for the entire file to fit.  See the /SP
          command line parameter.


   ASK FOR MULTIPLE INPUT DISKETTES

          Causes PCOPY to ask for more input diskettes after the first
          diskette is processed. Great when reading from a series of
          diskettes (/MU).



   DISABLE SOUNDS DURING PROCESSING

          Disables speaker beeps normally sounded to inform the user some
          action is needed (/SO).


                  The third and last PCOPY menu



   Select files by size ===>

          If a numeric value is specified, only files larger than (>), or
          smaller than (<) the value are processed.  The numeric value must
          be preceded by < or > (/SZ:).

   Select by date     From Date:          to Date:

          If one or more dates are specified, only files having a date less
          than or greater than the dates specified will be selected for
          processing (/D:).


   Stop when Source Drives freespace >

          If a numeric value is specified, PCOPY will check the source
          drive freespace before copying each file.  If the drives
          freespace is greater than the value specified, processing will
          stop.  Use with MOVE option to empty a disk up to a specified
          level of freespace (/SS:).


   Stop when Target Drives freespace <

          If a numeric value is specified, PCOPY will check the target
          drive's freespace before copying each file.  If the freespace is
          less than the value specified, processing will stop.  Use to copy
          files to a disk until it has less than n characters free (/ST:).

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 26
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Duplicate Files:   REPLACE     SAVE OLD COPY     ONLY DUPLICATES

          Indicate how to process files that already exist on the target
          directory.

          REPLACE        -- Overlay files regardless of date/time (/R).

          SAVE OLD       -- Rename the target file and then copy the source
                            file to the directory.  The new name will have
                            a number placed in the files extension to
                            indicate the version of the file (/SA).

          ONLY DUPs      -- Select duplicate filenames for processing.
                            Ignore all other files (/E).

   Networks:    NO FILE SHARING   COPY FILE BEING READ     COPY ALL IN USE

          When using PCOPY in network environments, indicate how PCOPY is
          to proceed when files are found to be in use by other tasks in
          progress.

              NO SHARE      --  Skip files in use
                                (/SHN).
              READ          --  Process files being
                                read by another task
                                (/SHR).
              ALL           --  Continue to process
                                any file already in
                                use (/SHA).


   Process files in date sequence:  ASCENDING   DESCENDING

          Process files in date sequence.  Use to copy the most recent
          files, or the oldest files to a target location (/SN, /SO).



   WAYS TO USE PCOPY
   -----------------

   1. Copy files from floppy disk to hard disk

          PCOPY is safer than DOS COPY when copying files your system.  It
          prevents you from accidently replacing a file with another of the
          same name.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 27
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          When PCOPY encounters a duplicate file, it will stop and ask if
          the file is to overlay the already existing one.  You can tell
          PCOPY to REPLACE or UPDATE files with /R and /U command line
          parameters.


          Following are samples of the simplest copy commands using PCOPY:

              If you are copying to the current directory
              on the hard disk:
                 PCOPY A:*.*

              To copy to a specific directory:
                 PCOPY A:*.* \SPECDIR


   2. Taking changed files from work to home

          It is common to need to take files from home to work or
          visa-versa.  Since it is difficult to keep track of all the files
          you may have updated, it is convenient to let PCOPY find the
          updated files by copying all files updated within the last n days
          to a diskette.  You reduce copy time by not copying an entire
          directory and are sure to get all newly changed files.

          PCOPY *.* A:/d:3  <== updated last 3 days
          PCOPY *.* A:/D:)1DEC90  <== After date


   3. Copy files modified before/after a time

          Sometimes the only way to identify recently changed files is by
          using the time they were updated.  PCOPY can select files by time
          of day.  You might use this option to determine what files were
          updated after 5:00PM. Remember, with the /T TEST option, PCOPY
          serves as a unique facility to locate and list files matching
          your selection criteria. PCOPY's unique selection facilities can
          be used to locate and list files.  The /T option indicates to
          scan disks and simulate processing but do not actually move or
          change any data.


   4. Quick move files to a new directory on the same hard disk

          Moving files with DOS requires two commands.  COPY the data, then
          DEL the files from their original location.  In addition to
          requiring two commands it forces DOS to copy the data.

          If the file is larger than the available freespace on the hard
          disk, a copy of the data is not possible.

          PCOPY moves files to new directories on the same disk without
          having to physically copy the data.  It simply moves the file
          reference to a new directory.  Even huge files move in an
          instant!

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 28
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

              PCOPY \OLDDIR\*.DAT \NEWDIR /X


   5. Copy only duplicate files

          To update a directory with duplicate files from another directory
          or disk:

              PCOPY \FROMDIR1 A:*.* /E


   6. Copy multiple groups of file by extension names

          Use PCOPY to process multiple file selection specifications with
          a single copy command. Separate each with a comma.

              PCOPY *.BAT,*.EXE,*.COM \EXEDIR


   7. Copy files excluding files of one or more extension names

          The OMIT feature lets you exclude files from processing using
          command line specifications. It is commonly used to exclude
          program files when copying to diskettes.

              PCOPY *.* A: /O:*.EXE,*.BAT,*.COM


   8. Copy files containing specific characters in their name

          When you need to select or find files having a specific word in
          their names, but the filenames do not begin with the word, PCOPY
          can locate them.

          Copy all files having names containing the 3 consecutive
          characters "ZIP".

              PCOPY *ZIP*.* \ZIPFILES


   9. Display files having specific name


          Use PCOPY to find all occurrences of files by name on a disk.
          PCOPY can scan a disk and display or process files from multiple
          directories.  The /S (SCAN) parameter causes PCOPY to search all
          directories.

              PCOPY *.DOC \TEST /S/T


PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 29
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   10.  Copy only newer files between disks and directories

          One of the most common uses of PCOPY is to copy data between
          diskettes and hard disks. Use the update (/U) parameter to make
          sure only newer files are updated.  Add the "WHY" (/WH) parameter
          to cause PCOPY to show any files that were not processed.  Note
          that you can specify the target directory name without trailing \.

              PCOPY A:*.* C:\NEWDIR /U/WH


   11.  Copy a disk including all directories to a new disk

          PCOPY copies directories too.  Simply specify the Directory Copy
          parameter (/DC).  The file will be copied to the same directory
          name on the target drive.  If the directory does not exist, it
          will automatically be created for you. Adding the Scan (/S)
          parameter causes PCOPY to scan all disks on the source drive.
          Using a combination of /S/DC, you can copy all files and
          directories from one disk to another.

          Note, /DC only copies directories when files are to be copied
          into them.  This insures that unneeded directories are not also
          copied.  To copy every directory even if no files are copied,
          specify the All Directory Copy (/DCA) parameter instead of /DC.

              PCOPY A:*.* F: /DC/S


   12.  Copy a directory and all subordinate directories

          To copy or move files from a directory and all its subordinate
          directories use PCOPY's /DS parameter.  The following example
          scans the directory C:\WP and any subordinate directories to copy
          all files having the extension name .TOM to a diskette.

              PCOPY \WP\*.TOM A: /DS


   13.  Fill one or more diskettes from hard disk files

          DOS COPY and XCOPY are unable to copy a set of files to multiple
          diskettes.  When the first diskette is full, they stop.

          PCOPY is not limited to copying to a single diskette.  It detects
          when a disk is full and asks if the copy is to continue on to
          additional output diskettes.  PCOPY also makes maximum use of
          diskette space.

          When you are attempting to copy many files to diskettes for
          backup or transporting, you want to use as few diskettes as
          possible.  The PCOPY Fill (/FI) parameter causes PCOPY to fill
          output diskettes without wasting space. With the /FI parameter,

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 30
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          when PCOPY is unable to fit a file on an output diskette, it
          saves that filename for later processing and searches for another
          file that will fit on the disk.  This results in significant
          savings in diskettes and time to process them..

              PCOPY C:\WP\*.* A: /FI


   14.  Copy files larger than a floppy disk to multiple diskettes

          Unlike DOS COPY and XCOPY, PCOPY can copy files larger than a
          diskette to multiple diskettes.  This is accomplished by
          splitting large files into multiple parts. PCOPY only splits
          files when there is insufficient space on the output disk and
          when the split parameter is specified.  The Split (/SP) parameter
          tells PCOPY it is OK to split large files.  Following is an
          example:

              PCOPY C:\WP\*.* A: /SP/FI

          To restore split files, simply use PCOPY to copy the files back
          to a disk large enough to contain the entire file.  PCOPY will
          find the split files and automatically recombine them.

              PCOPY A:*.* C:\WP /MU


   15.  Backup from hard disk to floppy disks

          PCOPY is not a full backup system but its features allow it to be
          used for backup processing.  It is very effective for backing up
          one hard disk to another.  Following is a basic explanation of
          backup procedures.

          The most common backup technique is referred to as Incremental
          Backup.  This technique uses two different backup commands to
          implement initial full backup, and daily incremental backup.

          Incremental backup lets you avoid repeatedly backing up your
          entire system each time you want to backup.  Instead, the first
          time you backup, you copy your entire system to disks. Then, each
          subsequent day (or other backup period) you only backup the files
          that have changed since the previous backup.  If you are like
          most users, your "daily" backups will require only a couple of
          minutes because you only modified a small portion of your files
          since you last backed up.

          A special DOS maintained file archive attribute supports
          incremental backup.  The flag is an indicator field that is kept
          by DOS in each files directory entry.  It is stored along with
          file date, time and size information. Whenever DOS, or an
          application, creates or changes a file, this archive attribute
          flag is set to indicate the file needs to be backed up. Programs
          that support backup use this flag to distinguish between files
          that need backup, and those that have already been backed up.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 31
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          Whenever a program backs up a file, it should reset the flag to
          indicate backup has been done.  Then, incremental backup
          processing will know to skip the file and not back it up again
          until it has changed.

          Following is an example of using PCOPY to backup hard disk C: to
          diskettes in drive A:.

          Full Backup

          First we will show the PCOPY command to make the first backup.

              PCOPY C:*.* A: /DC/S/D-/A/LG/FI

          The above command causes PCOPY to copy all files on drive C: to
          drive A:.  /DC and /S causes directory names to be copied to the
          target drive and makes PCOPY backup from all directories.  Since
          this is the first backup, /D- is included to force all files on
          drive A; to be deleted prior to the copy.  /A causes PCOPY to
          reset the DOS archive flag on each processed file to show the
          files were backed up.  The /LG parameter asks PCOPY to write a
          log record to PCOPY.LOG for each file written.  The log file can
          be used to locate the diskette containing a file to be restored.
          /FI causes PCOPY to fill all disks efficiently and make optimum
          use of diskette space.

          This command should only be run for the first backup.

          INCREMENTAL BACKUP (Daily backup)

          The following command causes PCOPY to scan your disk to find
          files that have changed since your previous backup, and add them
          to your already started set of backup diskettes.

              PCOPY C:*.* A: /DC/S/D2/A/LG/FI/B

          The incremental backup command is almost the same as the full
          backup except for two parameters.  The /B parameter causes PCOPY
          to only process files that have the archive (backup) attribute
          set.  Processing will be confined to changed files.  /D2 is used
          in place of /D-.  /D2 indicates that PCOPY is to append files to
          the first backup disk and then to erase all files before reusing
          any additional diskettes.

          After running your full backup, keep track of the last diskette
          written to.  This will be the first disk provided for the next
          Incremental Backup.  Label a set of backup disks and number them
          sequentially.  Use a specially marked diskette sleeve for storing
          the last disk used.  This will make it easy to identify when
          running backup again.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 32
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          Restoring files from backup disks

          Use PCOPY to restore any file from the backup disks.  The
          PCOPY.LOG file contains a complete list of all backups done.  You
          can examine this file to determine if and when a file was backed
          up.  Then use the following PCOPY command to restore any files.

              PCOPY A:filename.ext C: /MU/DC/S


   16.  Combine one or more files to a single new file

          Use PCOPY to combine two DOS text files into a single output
          file.  The following command copies two files to a single file,
          DOS.TXT. The append parameter causes them to be concatenated
          together.

              PCOPY DOC.TX1,DOS.TX2 DOS.TXT /AP


   17.  Copy and save duplicate files with a new generated name

          Use PCOPY when you need to copy updated files to diskettes that
          already contain previous versions of the same files.  The /SA
          parameter indicates PCOPY is to save old versions of files by
          renaming them with version numbers in their extension names.
          PCOPY.C would be renamed to PCOPY.C01 before a new PCOPY.C is
          copied to the same diskette.

              PCOPY \UPDATES \CSOURCE /R/SA


   18.  Merge two directories

          Use PCOPY to move all files from one directory to another making
          sure the most current version of files in both directories are
          kept.

          Merging files from one directory into another involves three
          actions.  First PCOPY moves files from the source directory that
          do not already exist on the target directory.  Second, it moves
          newer duplicate files to the target directory.  Third, it deletes
          files from the source directory that were not copied to the
          target directory.

              PCOPY \fromdir \todir /ME


PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 33
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   19.  Execute any command with selected files as parameters

          Since PCOPY has file selection capabilities not available in
          other programs it can be used to select files to be processed by
          other commands and applications.  For example, the following
          command will start an EDIT command for all P*.C files found by
          PCOPY. With the /CD parameter, PCOPY only starts other commands.
          It does not copy or move data.

              PCOPY P*.C /CD:EDIT[#


   20.  Search multiple directories for files to copy

          Use PCOPY to scan a set of directories and copy files to a new
          location. This is useful if you are not sure of exactly what
          directory a file name exists in or if files from multiple
          directories are to be copied.  Use the /S or /DS parameter.

          Here is a sample command:

              PCOPY LOOKFOR.ZIP A: /S/DR:CDE


   21.  Delete files on target disk and copy files to it

          You may keep a work diskette handy by your machine to use to
          transport files between home and office.  Use the /D- command
          with PCOPY to erase any old files on the disk before copying new
          files to it.  This saves you from having to use a delete command
          and press Y to delete all files.  The following command will
          erase the disk in drive A: and then copy files to it.

              PCOPY PW*.C A:/D-


   22.  Restarting a previously incomplete copy

          Sometimes it is necessary to stop a copy and start again at a
          later time.  Even with a single diskette the DOS COPY command is
          unable to resume processing from a specific filename. The PCOPY
          /F:filename.ext parameter provide PCOPY with a starting filename.
          The following command copies all files from PCOPY.C in a
          directory to diskette drive A:

              PCOPY *.* A: /F:PCOPY.C

          If you are referring to a hard disk, you do not need the /F
          command to resume processing. Simply specify the /U parameter.
          PCOPY will skip all files previously copied and start when the
          first uncopied file is reached.


PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 34
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

   23.  Freeing disk space by copying files to archive disks

          When your hard disk becomes full, you can use PCOPY to locate
          old files and move them to diskettes for archival storage.
          The following command finds files in the ARCHIVE directory
          that are older than a specified date, and move them to
          diskette.  Include the /SS:nnn command to stop processing when
          sufficient freespace is available on the hard disk.

              PCOPY \ARCHIVE A: /X /D:(1jan89 /ss:1000000


   24.  Transporting an entire disk to another computer

          Copying one disk and all its subdirectories to another disk is
          easy.  The first command copies all files to diskettes.  The
          second command copies the files and directories from the
          diskettes back to any hard disk.

              PCOPY C:*.* A: /DC /S /FI

              PCOPY A:*.*  C: /DC /S


   25.  Determine differences between files in two disks

          One of the most useful functions of PCOPY does not copy files at
          all.  To compare and report the differences between files on a
          diskette and the files on a hard disk directory, use the PCOPY
          command in test mode.

              PCOPY A:*.* \DIRNAME /U/WH/T

          The /T parameter indicates test mode, no copy or move is to be
          done.  The /U indicates to update any newer files.  The /WH
          indicates to show why any files would not be copied. The
          resulting display shows the new files, which are newer versions,
          and what files are already on the drive as duplicates.  It will
          also indicate what files are older copies of the same filenames.


   26.  Keeping files on two computers in synchronization

          The /DY synchronization parameter indicates PCOPY is to make the
          target directory contain the same files as the source
          specification.  It saves time by only copying files needed.  An
          important feature is its ability to remove any files from the
          target drive that are not on the source drive being copied from.

          This command is especially useful for transporting files from
          work to home and home to work using diskettes.  A quick command
          at the end of each day will copy the files and remove deleted
          ones.

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 35
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

          PCOPY \WORDPROC\*.* A: /DY   Work to diskette

          PCOPY A:*.* C:\WORDPROC /DY  disk to home


   27.  Saving generation backup copies of a files

          Products that backup files before changing them often do not
          consider situations when a user stops and starts an application
          many times between backups.  Unless multiple backup files are
          maintained, good versions of a file can be lost when good backup
          versions are replaced with bad versions.

          Since PCOPY can create backup files with consecutively numbered
          names, you never lose a backup version.  Just use PCOPY to make a
          copy of the file(s) to a backup directory before starting your
          application.

              PCOPY %1 \BACKUP/SA/NW/U  Make backup
              123 %1     <=== Start application

          After you next backup your system, delete the PCOPY backup
          versions to free space on your hard disk.  Use PDEL delete
          utility to delete all files in the BACKUP directory without being
          prompted to confirm the delete request.

          After Backup:

          PDEL \BACKUP\*.*/NC    Erase backup directory


   28.  Quickly copying files from one diskette to another

          Since multiple floppy drives on a system cannot be accessed at
          the same time, it is very inefficient to copy files from one
          floppy disk to another. Instead, create a temporary directory on
          your hard disk and first copy the files to the hard disk
          directory.  Then move them from the hard disk directory to the
          output diskette.  This greatly reduces copy time by avoiding
          multiple stopping and starting of floppy drives.  If you can use
          a ram disk as an intermediate drive, the copy will be very fast.

              MD C:\TEMP
              PCOPY A:*.*/NW
              PCOPY C:\TEMP B:/X/NW
              RD C:\TEMP

PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 36
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Site licensing plans for one or more Patriquin utilities:
---------------------------------------------------------

               1.   Site licensing fees are as follows:

                    The  first  five  copies  of  any  or all utilities are
                    purchased  at  full  price.    If   all  utilities  are
                    purchased, printed  documentation is included for these
                    first 5 copies.

                    All  additional  copies  of  any  utility  or  complete
                    package are 1/3 off the normal price.

                    You  pay   a  maximum   of  $2000.00  to  register  any
                    individual utility or $4500.00  for all  utilities, for
                    an entire site.  This gives your installation rights to
                    copy and distribute the  utilities  to  anyone  at your
                    site.   This also  allows "at-home"  use of any utility
                    for any person at the site.

                    A site is a company location in one  city.   A location
                    in another city is considered a second site.

                    If a utility is placed on a LAN, each regular user of a
                    utility placed on the  LAN should  be registered.   Use
                    your own good judgement here.



PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 37
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

       VISA / Mastercard / Telephone Registration
        ------------------------------------------

        You may place a telephone order for the utilities using your credit
        card by calling Nelson Ford's Public (Software) Library.

             Telephone orders: 800-242-4775 or 713-665-7017

        The  PSL  supplies Shareware  software  at  a nominal  cost  to its
        customers.  Consider them for all your Shareware needs.



                             ----     OR    ------


         You may call the Patri-Soft BBS and register online.  The number
         is (714) 352-2825 1200/14000 8-N-1.  Fill out script 2 to place
         your order.  Credit card orders are also accepted through U.S. Mail.


PCOPY   Version 9.0D April 1991  Copyright 1991 by Patri-Soft       Page 38
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

         REGISTRATION
         ------------

         Patri-Soft provides full support to users, both registered and
         non-registered.  We provide support through several different way:

                 U.S. Mail  -  You may send us problem reports through
                               the mail. Any extended information that
                               you can provide is greatly appreciated.
                               (i.e. screen shots, the actual problem
                               file, etc).

                 Telephone  -  You may contact us at (714) 352-2820 to
                               discuss problems.  However, extended
                               telephone support is limited as the
                               circumstances require.

                 CIS        -  You may contact us on CompuServe
                               (76347,2477).  This is usually the
                               fastest way.

          A BBS is in operation 24 hours a day to take your enhancement
          requests and problem reports.  The number for this is
          (714) 352-2825.  (1200/14000 8-N-1).  Extended access is
          provided to registered users of the utilities.


          Patri-Soft offers a money back guarrentee if you are not satisfied
          with the software.  Simply contact us with the reasons of your
          dissatisfaction, and we will gladly refund your money.

          We at Patri-Soft pride ourself on our user support.  If for
          some reason you feel that you have not gotten the service you
          deserve, PLEASE let us know.  We try to respond to ALL users
          quickly and politely.


                        Registered PCOPY 9.0D Order Form

        --------------------------------------------------------------------
        VISA/Mastercard orders are also accecpted through telephone orders.
        Call Public Software Library: 800-242-4775 or 713-665-7017 to order.
        --------------------------------------------------------------------

        _____ Registration of all Patriquin Utilities with
              program disk and User's Guide....................@  $45.00

        _____ Update Service -- in addition to above, send the
              next version automatically when it is available....@ +$15.00

        --------------------------------------------------------------------

        _____ PCOPY     -- File Copy, Move, Backup, Update, more!...$20.00
        _____ PSEARCH   -- Locate files on your disk. Outstanding!..$20.00
        _____ PDELETE   -- Save space with automatic disk cleanup...$20.00
        _____ PPRINT    -- Advanced file print w/special formats....$20.00
        _____ PALERT    -- Warns you of low disk space..............$15.00
        _____ PATTR     -- Manage attributes of DOS files...........$10.00
        _____ PDAILY    -- Automatically execute commands once/day..$10.00

        _____ Update a registered set with new disk and manual -
              show proof of previous registration  SER=_________....$15.00

        _____ Shipping/Handling for orders outside USA, add ........$ 5.00


                                 Total amount of my order is:    $________

        Method of Payment:
                       ____      Check or money order (Made out to Patri-Soft)

                       ____      Visa or Mastercard
                                     Card number _____________________________

                                     Exp. Date   __________


                  Disk Size (circle one)?    5 1/4     3 1/2
        ===================================================================


        Name: __________________________________________________

        Company: _______________________________________________

        Address: _______________________________________________

                 _______________________________________________

        City: ________________________  State: ________  Zip: __________


        I learned about PCOPY from: _____________________________________

        Send order to: Patri-Soft  P.O. Box 8263  San Bernardino, CA  92412

                         Reporting Problems  (PCOPY 9.0D)

        I welcome all comments or enhancement suggestions.  Please document
        each item clearly and provide printed examples, if possible. Please
        be sure  to include this  form with all  requests. It will  help to
        make sure we can provide you with the best possible service.


        Name: __________________________________________________________

        Company: _______________________________________________________

        Address: _______________________________________________________

                 _______________________________________________________

        City: __________________________________  State: _______________

        Zip: ______________________________

        Telephone: _______ / ________________________ (Home / Work)


        Date: _________________________     Machine Type:_______________


        Name of Utility: _______________________ DOS Level: ____________

        Description of problem or enhancement:

        ________________________________________________________________

        ________________________________________________________________

        ________________________________________________________________

        ________________________________________________________________

        Suggested solution:

        ________________________________________________________________

        ________________________________________________________________


