
    
        
    
    
       
       
                                     * PERFECT BOX *
                                       
                            Loudspeaker Enclosure Simulation
                                       using the
                          Neville Thiele - Richard Small Model
                                       
                                       Version 4.5
                                     January 1, 1990
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                     Warren A. Merkel
                                     2851 Newcomb Ct.
                                    Orlando, FL  32826
       
       
       
                             Program registration is required.
                       See final page of this document for details.
    
    
    
    
        
    
                  ***** PERFECT BOX ***** Version 4.5 ******
                  *  Program and documentation written by  *
                  *            Warren A. Merkel            *
                  ******************************************

       I.   INTRODUCTION:
       
            PERFECT BOX is a Computer Aided Design (CAD) program for the
       simulation of loudspeaker performance.  PERFECT BOX is a very
       powerful tool for the amateur or professional speaker builder.
       Loudspeaker design is a balance of compromises involving
       enclosure size, low frequency cutoff, and transient response.
       This program will allow you to model the loudspeaker-enclosure
       combination entirely on your PC.  With proper use, you can be
       assured of the best (lowest in frequency) bass response in the
       smallest  enclosure.  You can then build the enclosure with full
       confidence that the final result will not become the new dog
       house for Fido, but an accurate, natural sounding system.
       
       PERFECT BOX does not deal with midrange or tweeter drivers. It
       only considers the low frequency driver in a multi-way system (or
       the only driver in a full-range system.)  Since enclosure
       alignments, such as box size, box type, and box frequency (now on
       referred to as Alignments), effect the woofer response, PERFECT
       BOX models systems covering low frequencies from 10 to 200 Hertz.
       The mathematical model will hold for  higher  frequencies, but I
       have optimized the program for the most useful range.
       
          II.  REQUIREMENTS:
       
       PERFECT BOX requires certain parameters that uniquely define the
       driver's characteristics.  Some of these parameters have been
       coined as the Thiele/Small (or T/S) parameters.  If you are new
       to loudspeaker design, it isn't important that you understand
       what each value represents, only that you are able to obtain
       these values from the driver manufacturer, or measure them
       yourself (the preferred method.)
       
                  PARAMETER                             UNITS
           Free air resonance    (Fs)                   Hertz
           Electrical   (Qes)
           Q Mechanical (Qms)
           Q Total   (Qts)
           Volume   Equivalent   Compliance(Vas)         Ft^3
           D.C.  Voice  Coil Resistance (Re)             Ohms
           Peak  Cone Displacement  (Xmax)               Inch
           Effective Piston Diameter                     Inch
           Thermal Power (P)                         Watts, RMS
       
       PERFECT BOX allows you to store these driver parameters in a data
       file ("BOXDATA4").  This file can store characteristics for
       thousands of different drivers.  A few sample drivers have been
       included so that you can experiment with PERFECT BOX.  These
       samples represent "real life" units which are currently available
       at this time. 


       III. DEFINITIONS:  
       
       ***SYSTEM ORDER***
       
       PERFECT BOX uses a classical high-pass filter model to simulate a
       loudspeaker mounted  in an enclosure.  The order of a loudspeaker
       system represents the  same characteristic roll off as that of an
       electrical filter.  The roll off rate (or slope) is:
       
              roll off rate = (6  * system order) dB/frequency octave
       or     roll off rate = (20 * system order) dB/frequency decade.
       
       PERFECT BOX can simulate both infinite baffle (sealed box), and 
       vented (ported) systems.  Each of these systems have a natural
       order in which they resemble an electrical high pass circuit.
       For infinite baffle, order=2, or that is to say that they are of
       2nd order.  And for vented systems, order=4. It seems that each
       kind of enclosure has pros and cons associated with them.
       
       In general, both  systems, if properly aligned, perform with the
       same low frequency response.  In practice, an infinite baffle
       system is easier to build, and possibly has better transient
       response.   The vented system offers slightly higher efficiency
       (2.9 dB), and good cone dampening near the vent frequency (but
       less below Fb.)  My preference is for 4th and 6th order systems.
       The sixth order system involves the use of a 4th order system
       tuned slightly lower than the 4th order ideal, and an 2nd order
       active equalizer circuit in the amplifier path.
       
       ***SYSTEM CUTOFF FREQUENCY***
       
       This is the frequency at which the system amplitude response is
       exactly 3.0 dB less than at a mid-band reference frequency (where
       response is basically flat at 0 dB.)  This is a standard point of
       interest that can be used to compare with another system's low
       frequency response data.  This point on the frequency plot
       represents the "half-power" amplitude, as compared to the
       amplitude at a mid-band reference frequency.
       
       ***OTHER SYSTEM ORDERS***
       
       As you are probably aware, a Graphic Equalizer can make a
       tremendous effect on the way your speaker system sounds.  The
       bad news is that an equalizer (EQ) usually doesn't have a control
       exactly centered on the proper frequency to properly extend low
       frequency cutoff, and thus will typically make matters worst.
       PERFECT  BOX can incorporate the effects of either a 1st or
       2nd order, ACTIVE EQ (that you must build) into the loudspeaker
       model.  The affects of which are easily depicted in the PB Graphic
       Plots.

       This mini EQ consists of a simple active high-pass filter, having
       a low turn-over (cutoff) frequency (typically  20-60  Hz),  which
       actually has a slight boost (peak) in its amplitude response
       above its cutoff frequency.  If the amount of boost and cutoff
       frequency are suitably chosen, the total system response 
       typically is extended a half-octave or more, while
       providing  infrasonic (rumble) filtering to boot.  In


       2nd-order EQ's, the boost is controlled by the "D" parameter
       (D=1/filter Q, for you filter buffs.)  Typical values  of
       "D" range from 0.3 to 1.414, giving most to least amount of
       amplitude boost.  A "D" of 0.52 gives approximately 6 dB of
       boost, a typical starting value.  The EQ frequency and the
       "D" factor should be juggled for the flattest, most extended low
       frequency response.  Use the "EQ2.EXE" program to calculate
       components to implement the 2nd order EQ.
       A word of caution.  Using large amounts of boost may tax small 
       power amplifiers  (less than 50 Watts,RMS) beyond their
       limits.  A properly designed 3, 3.5,  5, or 6th order system will
       not over tax your amplifier unless you listen to music either :
       
         1.  at extremely high SPL levels,
         2.  with heavy (double fortissimo) organ pedal notes, or
         3.  use other signal modification equipment such as an
             extremely low-end boosted Graphic Equalizer
             (quite stupid!), or Sub-Sonic Synthesizer (Harmonizer.)
       
       The EQ can be inserted into the signal path of your system at
       either a "Preamp-out/Amp-in" loop, or "tape monitor" connection. 
       A simple design for a 2nd order EQ is provided  with PERFECT BOX. 
       Type EQ2 at the DOS prompt to execute this option. You  must
       have (at least) a CGA graphics card in order to run EQ2 because 
       the electrical schematic is drawn on the screen after all of the
       circuit values are calculated.
 

       IV.  RUNNING PERFECT BOX  -  PROGRAM EXECUTION:  
       
       If you  have  an  IBM, Epson or HP LaserJet compatible printer,
       you can print the graphic plots generated by PERFECT BOX.  Perfect
       Box 4.5 has built-in support for Graphic printing for these
       printers in CGA and EGA modes.  You no longer have to use
       the DOS GRAPHICS.COM or PERFGRAF.COM included with previous
       releases of Perfect Box.  You might have to set your printer
       switches to DEFEAT "automatic" Linefeed [LF] after a Carriage
       Return [CR], (see your printer manual.)
       
       I have included a simple  batch file called GO.BAT,
       which will execute Perfect Box for you.  You may change this
       batch file to suit your particular needs.  The actual program
       file is BOX4_5.EXE.  You will not have to change the program
       file name until you receive a future upgrade of PERFECT BOX.
       
       Insert the PERFECT BOX program disk into your default disk
       drive,  and type GO <Return>.  You should see the PERFECT BOX
       opening screen.  Take the time to read this screen and remember
       that many, many hundreds of hours of effort have been put into
       this program.  If you use this program  more than five times, you
       must be understanding the purpose so don't forget your obligation
       to this author!
       If  you  see  an  error  message  stating  "Bad  Command  or
       Filename", check to see if you are in the  same  directory as the
       PERFECT BOX files.  After about 5 seconds, you may  press  RETURN
       to continue.
       If all is well, you should see the following screen.
       
                    PERFECT BOX - Version 4.5            Current Time:
       
       ษอน Boxdata Choices ฬออออออออออออป   ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
       บ                                บ   บ Drivers on file :  1573     บ
       บ (B) Browse the database        บ   บ Boxdata path  : G:\perfect\ บ
       บ (L) Load a driver by #         บ   บ Graphics mode : EGA         บ
       บ (S) Store New Driver data      บ   ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
       บ (E) Edit the database          บ                       Quick Mode
       บ (B) Boxdata Reports       ษออออสอออออออออออออออออน Utility ฬอป
       บ                           บ                                  บ
       ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออน (C) Change Boxdata path          บ
                                   บ (P) Sort/Pack Boxdata file       บ
          ษออออออออออออออออออออป   บ (A) Append new records           บ
          บ REGISTERED TO:     บ   บ (W) Write defaults               บ
          บ Trial copy.        บ   บ (D) DOS Shell                    บ
          บ Your name or       บ   บ (Q) Quit to DOS                  บ
          บ company name shouldบ   ศออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
          บ be listed here.    บ
          บ                    บ
          ศออออออออออออออออออออผ
       
       
       Use PgUp - PgDn - Home - End -  -  - <RETURN>= Select - or HotKey

                               Output Menu


       Each  of the menu choices may be executed by either pressing the
       "key letter"  or  by using the cursor arrow keys to highlight the
       choice and then pressing RETURN.  If you have a mouse, you can
       choose by clicking the left button on any of the options
       
       BOXDATA CHOICES:
       
       (B)  Browse.  This option will allow you to view the drivers
       currently in the BOXDATA file.  You can move through the list
       using the arrow, Home, End, Page Up, and Page Down Keys.  The end
       key takes you to the bottom of the list, and Home will return you
       to the first listing.  Use these keys to point the "flashing
       arrows" at your driver choice.  If you have sorted your Boxdata
       file using the Sort/Pack option, you can press any of the Alpha
       keys (A-Z) to jump to that corresponding Manufacturer name.  If
       you have a mouse installed, you can move the highlight arrows
       straight to the driver of interest with the left button.  The
       right button will load the currently selected line.
    
       Browse-Choose  the driver with the arrow keys and  press  RETURN.
       ฏ106  ฏPR 38 XM 150  ฏPOLYDAX        ฏ15",PRO,MONITOR,96dB     ฎ
        107   PR 38 XT 150   POLYDAX         15",PRO,FOAM EDGE,MONITOR
        108   PR 38 XT 250   POLYDAX         15",PRO,99dB
        109   PR 38 XT 350   POLYDAX         15",PRO,HI-POWER,100dB
        110   TA-305 FSW     PRECISION       DUAL V.C. SUBWOOFER
        111   TA-305F        PRECISION       OMEGA
        112   TD-125F        PRECISION       ALPHA
        113   TD-255F        PRECISION       EPSILON
        114   TD-255F-SW     PRECISION       10",Alum Dual VC,90.7dB
        115   TO-205F        PRECISION       INFINITE BAFFLE 8"
       
            (** Only ten drivers are listed here for clarity. **)
       
                           <Esc>=Quit - <F2>=Edit - <F3>=Load defaults.
                PgUp-PgDn-Home-End -   <INS>=Get #   < <ู >= Get Record 106
       
       
                            Perfect Box Browse function.
       
       After pointing to a particular driver, you may LOAD the driver
       parameters by pressing RETURN.  You can EDIT the driver
       parameters by pressing the <F2> function key.  The <F3> function
       key will load any previous Box Volume, Vent Frequency, Order, D
       factor,  and EQ frequency information   saved  in a previous
       execution of PERFECT BOX, and initiate the calculation loop.  You
       still can bypass the current selected driver and  load any other
       driver by pressing <INSERT> and entering the record  number.  The
       <F3> function key will take you back out to the opening menu.
       When you return to the BROWSE function, the BOXDATA list will be
       on the same page as the last time you were there.
       
       (L)  LOAD:
       
       This option allows you to  LOAD  driver  data  directly  from the
       BOXDATA  file  using the record number.  On Floppy based systems,
       this option might save you time by skipping the Browse feature. 


       (S)  STORE:
       
       This option  allows  you  to  enter new driver data into the
       BOXDATA file.  ALL parameters listed are required, so don't skip
       any unless you are told you may enter a Zero.  If you don't have
       all of the correct T/S parameters, you should try to obtain them
       from the manufacturer.  In a pinch, you can approximate  values
       from other drivers in the BOXDATA file.  Don't forget to add the
       correct values when you  get them.  Of course, the accuracy of
       this loudspeaker model is DIRECTLY proportional to the T/S
       parameter accuracy!  Which brings me to say this:
    

            I claim no responsibility  for  the completeness or accuracy
            of the T/S parameters included with  your  copy of PERFECT
            BOX.  Many (very many!) of the current drivers listed have
            been appended from files sent to me by Registered users of
            PERFECT BOX.  If you are unsure of  any  data,  it is your
            responsibility to verify  the T/S parameters with
            the manufacturer or test them yourself!
       
       (Soapbox off.)

       The new entries are placed  at  the  bottom  of the BOXDATA file
       and once entered, can be LOADED immediately. 
       
       (E)  EDIT:
       
       You can edit any of the  T/S parameters in the BOXDATA file. Use
       the current driver record number  to  call  up the driver and
       follow the screen prompts for instructions.  You can also edit a
       driver directly from the BROWSE function.
       
       (B)  REPORTS:
       
       You can print the full BOXDATA file on your  printer  in two
       forms.  The first form contains  ALL of the driver parameters
       including  comments.  The second form will print the driver's
       basic T/S parameters, Fs, Vas, and Qts, and use them to calculate
       the "Ideal" 4th order Box volume, Vent frequency, and F3 cutoff
       point.  This form is very handy to compare driver performance.
       
       
       UTILITY
       
       (C)  Change Boxdata Path:
       
       The BOXDATA file containing all  driver  parameters,  can be
       located  on  a  different  drive/directory  than  the current DOS
       default.  Choose this option if you want to change  the  path  to
       the data file.  Note:  The path is saved for future executions of
       PERFECT BOX using the Write Defaults option.  You could use this
       feature to maintain more than one BOXDATA4 file.
 
       (P)  Sort/Pack  
       
       Each new driver that you enter into the BOXDATA file is placed 
       at the bottom of the file.  You can use the Sort/Pack option to 
       sort  the file alphabetically by Manufacturer.  If you have
       marked a driver for deletion in the EDIT driver menu, the Sort /
       Pack routine will purge it from the BOXDATA file.  This routine
       is the an updated version of the sort program that was included
       with earlier versions of PERFECT BOX, and thus (if you  have 
       them) you should delete the old BSORT.BAT and BOXSORT3.EXE
       program files.

       (A)  Append new records
       
       This option is used to combine other BOXDATA files into the
       current, active BOXDATA file.  If you are upgrading from Version
       3.xx, rename the OLD data file to "DATAUP.DAT".  Start PERFECT
       BOX and choose the Append option.  If you are upgrading from
       Version 2.xx, you must run the 2to4.exe program first.  Version 3
       uses a slightly different file structure, and thus the 2to4.exe
       program will convert you old BOXDATA file into the new structure,
       leaving a new file called "BOXDATA4".
       
       Since this is the current name of the Version 4.0 data file, YOU
       MUST DO THIS CONVERSION IN ANOTHER DIRECTORY THAN THE ONE
       CONTAINING THE NEW BOXDATA4 FILE INCLUDED IN THE VERSION 4.5
       ARCHIVE!  Either use a different directory or copy the NEW,
       original BOXDATA4 to another directory for safe keeping.  I
       suggest that you make backup copies of EVERYTHING, OLD AND NEW,
       before attempting the conversion  process.   After running the
       2to4.exe  program, rename  the resulting file from BOXDATA4  to
       "DATAUP.DAT".  Copy "DATAUP.DAT" file into the PERFECT  BOX
       directory, choose the APPEND function, and watch it fly!
       
       (W)  Write defaults.
       
       Each time PERFECT BOX is loaded, a file named PERFECT.CTL is read
       for startup defaults.  There are many default values kept in 
       this file including:  1. Boxdata4 data file directory:   2.
       Graphics mode:  CGA, EGA, or HERC;  3. "Quick mode" toggle; 4.
       Printer Port assignment, mouse calibration values and other
       variables.
       
       The first two values have obvious purposes.  The third parameter
       is used to hold the default mode for the calculation loop end
       point.  In normal mode, the loop counts up to 200 Hz. In Quick
       mode, the loop counts up to 100 Hz.  This is useful  for making
       quick estimates on the slower "XT" type machines.  You can toggle
       this mode within PERFECT BOX with the <F9> function key. The
       write defaults option will over-write the configuration file with
       current  values  for  BOXDATA  file  path, Graphics and Quick
       Modes.  PERFECT BOX 4.5 uses a different format for this control
       file than earlier releases.  You should delete you old
       perfect.ctl file and restart PERFECT BOX.
 

       (D)  DOS Shell

       You can spawn another copy of COMMAND.COM from within PERFECT BOX
       using this option.  Use this option to check directories or
       file space.  Type EXIT at the DOS prompt to return to PERFECT
       BOX. This option actually executes a batch file called "SH.BAT". 
       You could modify this batch file to run another program instead
       of loading Command.com.
       
       (Q)  Quit to DOS
       
       Just like it says!  This choice will halt execution of PERFECT
       BOX and immediately return you to the DOS.
       
       OK, OK!, enough talk.  Let's see some action!

       Now that you know what all of that stuff does on the opening
       menu, choose a driver from the BOXDATA file.  Use the BROWSE
       option, point at an interesting driver, and press RETURN. The
       parameters listed are the minimum that you will need  to know
       about  any  driver simulated with PERFECT BOX.  For this example,
       answer "Y" to the question "Do you want this driver?"  Now choose
       "1" for a single driver simulation.
       
       Record # ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ>  106
       Manufacturer ฤฤฤฤฤ> POLYDAX
       Model Number ฤฤฤฤฤ> PR 38 XM 150
       Comment ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ> 15",PRO,MONITOR,96dB
       Free air resonance=  19.5 hz.
       Vas =  24.37 ft^3.
       Qts =  .27
       Qes =  .3
       Qms =  2.7
       Re =   5.8 ๊
       Xmax=  .1377953
       Piston Diameter=  14 in.
       Power= 150 Watts.
       
          DO YOU WANT TO USE THIS DRIVER (Y)?
       
       Now, PERFECT BOX will calculate the "Ideal" 4th Order Box volume,
       the port frequency for that ideal box volume, and the cutoff 
       frequency (-3dB point.)  The ideal box volume is the smallest 
       enclosure that  provides the flattest, deepest low frequency 
       response. The cutoff point will give you a general idea of how 
       low the driver will perform in any box design (best case.) The 
       port frequency (box frequency) must be set as calculated to 
       obtain the cutoff predicted.  
 

       In a 4th order system:       Ideal vented volume is  8.53  Ft^3.
                                    System cut-off (-3dB) is  32.54  Hz.
                                    If the Vent frequency is  26.61  Hz.
       
       
       ษอออออออหอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
       บ ORDER บ             SYSTEM DESCRIPTION                บ
       ฬอออออออฮอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออน
       บ   2.  บ  CLOSED BOXฤยฤwithout Active Equalizer        บ
       บ   3.  บ             รฤwith 1st Order Active Equalizer บ
       บ  3.5  บ             ภฤwith 2nd Order Active Equalizer บ
       บ ฏ 4.  บ  VENTED BOXฤยฤwithout Active Equalizer        บ
       บ   5.  บ             รฤwith 1st Order Active Equalizer บ
       บ   6.  บ             ภฤwith 2nd Order Active Equalizer บ
       ศอออออออสอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ

       Efficiency Bandwidth Product..(Fs/Qes).. is 64 , which suggests a
       4th  order system.
       Enter System Order [ 4  =default] ?
       Enter BOX VOLUME (Ft^3) [ 8.53 =default] ?
       Enter BOX VENT FR. (Hz.) [ 26.61 =default] ?

       Now you must decide what type of enclosure to use.  If the driver
       has a Qts of 0.5 or greater,  I would try infinite baffle
       (order=2) systems first, otherwise, use Order=4,  with  the ideal
       box size and frequency.  Save the other Order options for later. 
       Since PERFECT BOX will recommend the Order for you, use it as a
       default.  Press RETURN to accept the default Order.
       
       Enter  the Box volume in cubic feet.  I suggest that you use the
       ideal box  size as a starting point.  Then, on the next pass,
       change one of the  box  alignments and check how the response was
       affected.  Again, press RETURN  to accept the default Box volume,
       or change it if you prefer to do so.
       
       Enter the Vent Frequency in Hertz.  Again, since this is your
       first time through, press RETURN to accept the default value.
            PERFECT BOX will now calculate :
            1.  Amplitude response in decibels;
            2.  Maximum Power in Watts;
       and  3.  Maximum Sound Pressure Level, at each frequency cycle
       between 10 and 200 Hertz.  (100  Hz  in  Quick mode.)
       
        Please wait ... Calculating data for the frequency of  xx  Hz.
       
       Be patient here. PERFECT BOX is running through a healthy chunk
       of floating point calculations, just sit back, watch the counter
       change and reminisce about the good old slide rule days.  When the
       calculations are complete, an Output/Changes Menu will be
       presented.  A math coprocessor chip makes this loop fly by in
       about 2 seconds (if you have one installed!)


       PERFECT    BOX    -   Version   4.5   
       ษอบ Output Choices ฬออออออออออออป ษออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
       บ                               บ บ Record # :  106                บ
       บ (F) Frequency vs. Amplitude   บ บ Driver   : PR 38 XM 150        บ
       บ (L) Excursion Limit plot      บ บ Manufacturer: POLYDAX          บ
       บ (V) View data points          บ ศออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ
       บ (U) QUAD-Plot Set-Up [ OFF ]  บ
       บ (D) Print Data points         บ                    Quick mode
       บ (P) Calculate Ports  ษออออออออสออน Changes ฬออออออออออออออป
       บ (W) Driver Worksheet บ                                    บ
       บ                      บ (B) Change Box Volume or Vent freq.บ เ=2.857
       ศออออออออออออออออออออออน (E) Change EQ. Frequency or D      บ h=1.365
                              บ (A) Change All parameters          บ
                              บ (T) Toggle graphics mode (EGA)     บ
                              บ (C) Change QLoss    ษออออออออออออออสน Doneฬป
                              บ       (Qloss = 7 )  บ                      บ
                              ศอออออออออออออออออออออน (S) Load/Save Align. บ
                                                    บ (R) Retrieve another บ
                                                    บ (Q) Quit to DOS      บ
                                                    บ                      บ
                                                    ศออออออออออออออออออออออผ
            
        Use PgUp-PgDn-Home-End-  -  - <RETURN>= Select - or HotKey
       
                             Output/Changes Menu
       
       OUTPUT CHOICES:
       
       (F)  Amplitude vs. Frequency Plot
       
       This choice will plot the classical Bode (pronounced BO-DEE) or
       Amplitude Response plot.  If the Quick mode was on during 
       calculations, the plot will stop a 100 Hz. You may print a copy
       of the plot on your graphics printer by pressing a "P".  This 
       pops up a nice time-date stamp, dumps the plot to your printer. 
       After the printer is finished, you can send a Form Feed (FF) to
       your printer by pressing the <F10> function key.
       
       (L)  Excursion Limit Plot
       
       This graph of SPL & Power vs. Frequency, will give you an picture
       of the system driven  at  maximum power.  This plot gives the
       Sound Pressure Level (in dB) and  the input power required to
       reach the excursion limit (Xmax) of the driver.  See the Design
       Notes chapter of this document for more discussion of this
       important graph.  



       (U)  QUAD-Plot Setup  (New to Version 4.5)  
       
       ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
       ณCurrent Dataณ
       ณ   in RAM.  ณ
       ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤู                                                   
                ณTrace toggle  Model#: Filename:  Load Data:
                ภฤฤ> F1 On  รฤฤฟ 
                               ณ 
                     F2 Off รฤฤล< --- ณEmpty      <ฤ F6ฤฟ
                               ณ                        ณ
       Press F1-F4   F3 Off รฤฤล< --- ณEmpty      <ฤ F7ฤด
       to enable               ณ                        ณ
       that trace #. F4 Off รฤฤล< --- ณEmpty      <ฤ F8ฤด
                               ณ                        ณ 
                               ณ                        ณ 
                                         ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤมฟ
                                         ณFrom Disk file.ณ
                                         ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู

                           Press F10 to Exit
                                                                        
       Save driver data in the Output Menu with the F7 key.
       You may load up to three data files for display
       in the QUAD Plot mode.
       
       
                            QUAD-Plot Setup Menu
       
       For EGA users, the QUAD-Plot function will allow you to compare
       Amplitude Plots from the current run with up to three other runs
       previously saved from the Output Menu with the F7 option. 
       
       Once in the QUAD-Plot Setup menu, you load the data files with
       function keys F6, F7 and F8.  The function keys F1-F4 will toggle
       each trace off and on, allowing printout of fewer traces than the
       loaded number.  Once you have loaded your comparison files, press
       F10 to return to the Output Menu.  You should notice that the
       prompt beside the QUAD-Plot Setup function should say
       "[ ON ]" This is automatically set to ON after leaving the QUAD-
       Plot Setup Menu.  You can toggle the QUAD-Plot OFF/ON with the F4
       key in the Output Menu.  Turning OFF the QUAD-Plot will not erase
       the currently loaded data, and will allow you to bounce back and
       forth between the usual plot modes and QUAD-Plot.
       
       The QUAD-Plot function is available only in the EGA graphics
       mode.  If your machine cannot support EGA 43 line mode, you
       cannot use QUAD-Plot.  Also, your mouse becomes useful tool
       during the QUAD-Plot display.  Without a mouse, some features
       will be unavailable to you, but you still can view up to four
       graphs at once.


       Perfect Box (4.5)  QUAD-Plot   
       
                            |                                    Fb
       ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
       ณRegistered to:ณ+6 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ 5 ณ                                             ณ
       ณYour name or  ณ 4 ณ                                             ณ
       ณCompany shouldณ 3 ณ                                             ณ
       ณbe listed     ณ 2 ณ                                             ณ
       ณhere.         ณ 1 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ 0ฤลฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ         ณ
       ณ              ณ-1 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-2 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-3 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-4 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-5 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-6 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-7 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-8 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-9 ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-10ณ                                             ณ
       ณ  PERFECT BOX ณ-11ณ                                             ณ
       ณ              ณ-12ณ                                             ณ
       ณ    by        ณ-13ณ                                             ณ
       ณ  Warren      ณ-14ณ                                             ณ
       ณ     A.       ณ-15ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ   ณ
       ณ    Merkel    ณ                                                 ณ
       ณ              ณ   20      30   40   50 60 7 8 9 100    200 Hz   ณ
       รฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤลฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤด
       ณ              ณ               ณ          ณ          ณ           ณ
       ณ              ณTrace 1        ณ Trace 2  ณ  Trace 3 ณ  Trace 4  ณ
       ณAt Magnifier: ณ 3124          ณ Mod:     ณ Mod:     ณ Mod:      ณ
       ณAmp =         ณ ALTEC         ณ Man:     ณ Man:     ณ Man:      ณ
       ณFreq=         ณ From RAM      ณ File:    ณ File:    ณ File:     ณ
       ณAt Ruler:     ณ Vb  : 2.79 CF ณ Vb  :    ณ Vb  :    ณ Vb  :     ณ
       ณAmp =         ณ Fb  : 33.44 Hzณ Fb  :    ณ Fb  :    ณ Fb  :     ณ
       ณFreq=         ณ Ord : 4       ณ Ord :    ณ Ord :    ณ Ord :     ณ
       ณ              ณ Feq :         ณ Feq :    ณ Feq :    ณ Feq :     ณ
       ณ              ณ D   :         ณ D   :    ณ D   :    ณ D   :     ณ
       ณ              ณ       Single  ณ          ณ          ณ           ณ
       ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู
       
                     Press P to Print  <ฤู to continue 
       
                      The QUAD-Plot Screen (not to scale)
       
       Each trace is plotted in a different color and can be temporally
       erased with function keys F1-F4 or with a left click in the data
       area for that particular trace.  If you have a mouse, you can use
       the cursor as a magnifier to determine which Trace is where.  As
       you pass over a particular trace, a asterisk will flash beside
       that Trace's number.

 
       You can also set a ruler line at any point on the graph with the
       left mouse button.  This will allow quick measurements of any
       point on the plot.  The ruler will be drawn from the center of
       the magnifier to each axis, and the values for the ruler will be
       locked at the "At Ruler" area.  To erase the ruler, click the
       right mouse button.  The "At Magnifier" values are constantly
       updated to the cursor magnifier position.
      
       You may have to calibrate your mouse to read the plot correctly. 
       If the magnifier values do not reflect the actual point on the
       plot, move the magnifier to the words "At Magnifier" and click
       both buttons.  You will be asked to move the magnifier to the
       20Hz-0dB point an click the left button.  Then you will be asked
       to move the magnifier to adjust the "At Magnifier" values to
       reflect exactly 0dB at 20 Hz.  Then click left again.  Then, if
       you are satisfied that you correctly positioned the mouse, press
       the right button to save these new calibrated values in the
       Perfect.ctl file.  You can abort by pressing the right button.
        
       As with the other Plot screens in PERFECT BOX, you can press a
       "P" to print the screen on your graphics printer.  The F10 key
       will cause a Form Feed command to be sent to your printer.
       
       At this time, only the Amplitude Plots can be compared.  If
       sufficent user interest dictates the addition of the SPL-Power
       plots into the QUAD-Plot function, I will work that mode into the
       next release.  (Registered users first though...)
       
       (V)  View data points
       
       This option  will  list  on the screen, all calculated data,
       between the frequency limits of your choice.
       
       (D)  Print data points
       
       This option will print on your printer, all calculated data,
       between the frequency limits of your choice.
       
       (W)  Driver Worksheet
       
       This  option produces on your printer, a worksheet which
       gives you a handy reference table to use as you change the
       different alignments about your system.  Each block can be filled
       from data printed on the Frequency vs. Amplitude plot option.  I
       suggest that you do this option first (only if you have a printer
       on-line.) and log each repetition of your progress.
       
       (B)  Change Box Volume or Vent Frequency
       (E)  Change EQ. Frequency or D
       (A)  Change ALL parameters
        
       At this point you may choose what parameter to change in an
       attempt to optimize the frequency plot, or what ever else you are
       trying to achieve (maximum power for instance.)  If you are
       currently working on a 2nd or 4th order system, the "Change
       EQUALIZER Frequency or D." choice will not be allowed.  Thus if
       you want to change to an "equalized" order, you must use the
       "Change ALL Parameters" option.  Remember that the previous value 
       for each prompt in the CHANGE menu, there will be the default
       value (just press RETURN.)

       (T)  Toggle graphics mode
       
       This choice toggles you between EGA and CGA modes.  This is
       really not needed anymore.  I left it in for those of you whom
       can't get the build-in graphics dump program to function properly
       with your printer.  You could for example, have the DOS
       GRAPHICS.COM loaded before PB, and switch to CGA for printing.
       
       (C)  Change Qloss 
       
       This option allows you to account for box leakage losses. Normal
       vented cabinets  are modeled at Ql=7.  If you do not have the
       means to accurately measure Qloss, then leave Ql=7. 
       
       (S)  Load/Save Alignment
       
       This choice allows you to save your current design parameters to
       the BOXDATA file for future use.  This becomes very handy if you
       want to keep track of your best designs  for  each driver.  
       
       (R)  Retrieve another driver
       
       This choice will dump all calculated data, and return you to the
       opening menu.

       (P)  Calculate Ports 
       
       After you are satisfied with the current design parameters,
       PERFECT BOX will calculate the port lengths required to tune the
       cabinet to the frequency currently chosen.  A column for two
       identical length ports is also given.  Dual ports are useful when
       the box volume or the MACH speed is too large for a single port.
       The MACH number is the percent of the speed of sound that will
       occur at the largest port output.

        
            POLYDAX             PR 38 XM 150
       BOX VOLUME=  8.53  Ft^3   BOX FREQUENCY=  26.61 Hz.  ORDER :  4
       HEIGHT=  39.72  in.   WIDTH=  24.52  in.   DEPTH=  15.2  in.
       
           VENT LENGTHS FOR  TYPICAL  INTERNAL  DIAMETERS  OF  PVC  PIPE
                                    (Inches)
       
       
       DIAMETER      LENGTH       MACH       DUAL VENTS    MACH
       -------       ------       ----       ----------    ----
        1           -.38        1.243 NO !    |   -.03       .311  NO!
        1.5         -.31        .553  NO !    |    .48       .138
        2           -.06        .311  NO !    |   1.35       .078  Best
        2.5          .37        .199  Use Dual|   2.57       .05   Best
        3            .97        .138  O.K.    |   4.13       .035  Best
        3.5         1.75        .101  O.K.    |   6.05       .025  Best
        4           2.7         .078  Best    |   8.32       .019  Best
        4.5         3.83        .061  Best    |  10.95       .015  Best
        5           5.13        .05   Best    |  13.92       .012
       
                                Vent Calculations.
       
       Stay away from large (speed> 0.2) port MACH speeds as they
       will cause unmusical whistle noises from the port.  Ports that
       are longer than the box depth, can be curved inside the enclosure
       with PVC swept elbows.

       V.  DESIGN HINTS: 
       
       If  the ideal box volume is too large to be realistically built,
       PERFECT BOX will allow you to see just how the loudspeaker
       performance will suffer, as you down size box volume.  It is do to
       this iterative design process that PERFECT BOX accels other
       modeling programs.  By changing either box volume, port
       frequency, or in EQ cases, EQ frequency and boost, a "perfect"
       frequency curve should be obtainable.  At this point you can tell
       how good a driver really is because sometimes one driver will
       out perform others in half the enclosure volume. 
       
       The port frequency is set by the area and length of the vent.
       PERFECT BOX will calculate the port for you, but the length is 
       typically 10% off, so add an half-inch to the calculated value,
       and measure the box frequency for yourself.  The system will not
       perform as calculated if you miss the port frequency by as little
       as 1 Hz, so try to hit it as close at possible.  Also, after you
       have reached a final box size, increase the box volume by as much
       as required to account for volume used by the drivers,  bracing,
       and crossover network.  It is much better to error on the high
       side of Box Volume.  I typically add 10% to the final size as a
       fudge factor.  You can always add braces to account for any
       overage.
       
 
       To find box dimensions from the box volume, take the volume
       in cubic feet, multiply by 1728 cubic in/ft^3, to get in^3.  Then
       take the cube root (or raise it to the 0.3333334 th power.)  Now
       this number is the width in inches.  Multiply the width by 1.62
       for the height, and multiply the width by 0.62 for the depth.
                 volume (in^3)  =  volume (ft^3) * 1728
                 width (in.)    =  (volume (in^3) )^0.3333334
                 height (in.)   =   width * 1.62
                 depth  (in.)   =   width * 0.62
              NOTE: All dimensions are internal, not external! 
       This will give the box a typical speaker "look" and also set the
       dimensions up for minimum internal reflections.  PERFECT BOX
       calculates these dimensions for you and prints them in the port
       length table.


       VI.  COMMAND LINE SWITCHES
       
       There are a few command switches which will override the settings
       in the PERFECT.CTL file.  
       
            /CGA   = Sets graphics mode to CGA.           
            /EGA   = Sets graphics mode to EGA.           
            /HERC  = Sets graphics mode to Hercules.      
            /LPT1  = Sets the active printer port to LPT1:
            /LPT2  = Sets the active printer port to LPT2:
            /LPT3  = Sets the active printer port to LPT3:
            /QUICK = Runs PB in the fast mode (10-100 Hz).
            /RESETMOUSE = Clears previous mouse calibrations.
            /NOMOUSE = Defeats all mouse functions.
            /PTF   = Reroutes all text printing to a file called
        "Printer.out".  All text output is APPENDED to this file.
            /NOPAPER = Defeats the printer error checking.    
        
       This might be useful if you are using a "Print-TO-File" TSR to
       grab output.  As it stands now, the Novell "SPOOL" command is
       supported for LPT1: if your workstation has an active local
       printer attached.  The /NOPAPER option bypasses local printer
       checking and allows SPOOL to capture LPT1 correctly without a
       local printer attached to LPT1:.

       All values affected by the Command line switches except /PTF can
       be made the current default by the "W" Write Defaults command in
       the opening menu.
       
       NOTE:  The /NOTEST switch is no longer supported (or required.)
       
       If you have a 8087/80287 coprocessor installed, PB will
       automatically use it for all Floating Point calculations.  If for
       some reason, you would like to defeat the coprocessor from
       functioning, set an Environment variable in your CONFIG.SYS file
       
          NO87=Coprocessor is Defeated
       
       and reboot, before executing Perfect Box.  You may also use the
       DOS "SET" command to create the NO87 variable.


      
       VII.  REFERENCES:
       
       This document and the program PERFECT BOX are only tools for
       the speaker designer.  One must know how to use these tools
       properly before judging the usefulness of PERFECT BOX.  I suggest
       that you read or subscribe to any of the following publications
       on the finer art of speaker building.
       
                 SPEAKER BUILDER MAGAZINE (6 times a year)
                      Edward T. Dell, Jr., Publisher
                      PO Box 494 Peterborough, NH 03458
       
       An excellent publication.  Articles vary from the most basic
       "cookbook" projects, to the exotic mathematical theories used in
       PERFECT BOX.  Electronic projects and crossover designs are
       covered in depth.  Many of the systems discussed are years before
       the designs hit the market.  Articles are written by
       knowledgeable authors well known in the field, ideas of which
       have been mimicked by the major Speaker Manufacturers.  Now with
       full color layouts, software and book reviews, Speaker Builder is
       an absolute must.


                 "The Loudspeaker Design Cookbook"
                      by Vance Dickason
                      Distributed by:
                      Old Colony Sound Lab
                      PO Box 243
                      Peterborough, NH 03458-0243
       
       Hats Off! to Dickason for handy reference to all design formulas
       required by the speaker designer.  Covers explanations of many
       types of crossover designs and enclosure systems, including Push-
       Pull, and Isobaric.  
       

             "How to Design, Build, & Test Complete Speaker Systems"
                      by David B. Weems
                      Library of Congress #TK9968.W43
                      Published by:
                      TAB Books
                      Blue Ridge Summit, PA  17214
                      No. 1064
       
       The perfect starter book in speaker design.  Written in a down to
       earth style, Weems covers the T/S theories with just enough math
       to get the job done correctly without being overbearing to the
       beginner.  Many complete projects and testing methods are
       covered.  A beginners standard for the past decade!
       

    
       VIII.  ERRATA: 
       
       Your support helps! PERFECT BOX is supported by YOU, the user.  
       Without user support, Shareware such as PERFECT BOX cannot
       continue to exist!  Use this program!, give a copy of PERFECT BOX
       to your friends  (the BBS Archive file is the best way to make 
       sure all the PERFECT BOX files are present.)  Above all, don't
       forget your part in the deal!  If you are using PERFECT BOX on a
       trial basis, that's fine.  Determine its usefulness in accurately
       designing your new speaker system, then REGISTER!  The money that
       you save by building your own system can easily cover the
       registration fee.
       
       If you are using PERFECT BOX in a business or commercial
       environment, you MUST Register, PERIOD.  IF YOU ARE MAKING A
       COMMERCIAL PROFIT USING PERFECT BOX WITHOUT REGISTRATION, YOU ARE
       IN VIOLATION OF YOUR SHAREWARE AGREEMENT WITH THIS AUTHOR.  Your
       job is easy with PERFECT BOX in your tool kit.  Don't forget who
       bought you that tool!
       
       Many registered users are using PERFECT BOX for professional 
       sound reinforcement or automotive sound applications.  If this is
       true for you, just don't forget the concepts under which
       shareware functions.  Perfect Box can easily pay for itself with
       ONE SALE.  
       
       PERFECT BOX is under constant scrutiny for improvement.  If you
       have any ideas for new features/functions, or problems in program
       operation, send them to me at the address on the next page.
       Your suggestion could be included in the next revision of PERFECT
       BOX.  By registering your copy, you will be sent (if requested) a
       disk with the current Version installed in your name.  You will
       also receive a copy of the next MAJOR PERFECT BOX revision, and
       new BOXDATA file parameters.  Registered users can have their
       current copy updated at any time.  Also, Registered users can
       download the future releases of PERFECT BOX directly from my 24
       hour BBS at FIDONET 363/507 (407-281-5522 : 2400-N-8-1),
       including unlimited "Online  support" through BBS E-Mail.
       
       If you want  to others to share in your BOXDATA resources, please
       send a COPY of your BOXDATA file on disk (5.25" or 3.5") to me
       in a U.S. Post Office approved disk envelope (or safe
       equivalent.)  Or, upload your BOXDATA file to my BBS.

       
       TO REGISTER:
       
       Send $40.00 in U.S. funds (personal  checks accepted)  to cover
       registration and return postage.  IT'S THAT SIMPLE.
       
       The un-registered copy is NOT "crippled" in any way.  All PERFECT
       BOX functions are available on the un-registered program. 
       
             Please make checks payable to:
       
       
                       >>>    WARREN A. MERKEL     <<
       
       
       and send your contribution to:
       
                           Warren A. Merkel
                           2851 Newcomb Ct.
                          Orlando, FL  32826
       

   (PERFECT BOX 4.5)      *** End of Document ***     (PERFECT.DOC)

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    
