
                                 PKLITE (tm)

                       The Executable File Compressor



            Topic                                                     Page

     I.  Introduction to PKLITE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
         1.  PKLITE Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
         2.  System Requirements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
         3.  Technical Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
         4.  Registration Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
         5.  Software License . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5


     II. Using PKLITE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
         1.  Explanation of the Command Line. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
         2.  PKLITE options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
              -a  Always compress files with internal overlays  . . .  10
              -b  Make backup .BAK file of original . . . . . . . . .  11
              -e  Extra compression method  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
              -l  Display software license screen . . . . . . . . . .  12
              -n  Never compress files with overlays. . . . . . . . .  13
              -o  Overwrite output file if it exists. . . . . . . . .  14
              -r  Remove any extra .EXE data. . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
              -u  Update file time/date to current time/date. . . . .  16
              -x  Expand a compressed file. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17


     III. Programs That Should Not Be Compressed. . . . . . . . . . .  19

     IV.  PKLITE Error Messages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
























                                     1

     I.  INTRODUCTION TO PKLITE
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     This section contains an introduction to the PKLITE data
     compression software.



     1.  PKLITE OVERVIEW
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     PKLITE is an easy to use file compression program.  It increases
     your valuable disk space by compressing executable files (with
     .EXE and .COM extensions).  PKLITE will compress these executable
     files so they will require much less disk space yet will still
     run normally.

     PKLITE compresses your files much like PKZIP, but it adds a small
     amount of extraction code at the beginning of the executable
     file.  When you run an application that has been compressed with
     PKLITE, the program will automatically be expanded into memory
     and run.  The compressing process does not change the operation
     of the program at all, it merely reduces the disk space required
     to store it.  No additional memory is needed to run most programs
     compressed with PKLITE.

     PKLITE also has the ability to expand your files back to their
     original size.





























                                     2

     2.  SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
     PKLITE will run on any IBM PC or compatible with DOS 2.0 or
     higher.  Running a program that has been compressed with PKLITE
     requires a maximum of 4K extra memory overhead to expand the
     application in memory.  Memory available to the application
     remains the same as before it was compressed.



     3.  TECHNICAL SUPPORT
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     If you have any questions regarding PKLITE or any of the other
     PKWARE programs, please call our technical support staff for
     assistance.  Our office hours are Monday through Friday, 9:00am
     to 5:00pm central time.  You can also leave a message on our
     24-hour PKWARE Support BBS, or mail your comments and questions
     to the PKWARE office.  The PKWARE address and telephone numbers
     are listed below.


	  PKWARE, Inc.
	  9025 North Deerwood Drive
	  Brown Deer, WI 53223

          Voice (9am to 5pm CT):  (414) 354-8699

          Fax:  (414) 354-8559

          PKWARE Support BBS (Available 24 hours): (414) 354-8670

          PKWARE on CompuServe 75300,730

          PKWARE also monitors support conferences on Relaynet, ILink
                and SmartNet





















                                     3

     4.  REGISTRATION INFORMATION
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     If you find PKLITE fast, easy, and convenient to use, you can
     become a registered user.  As a registered user, you will receive
     a diskette with the current version of PKLITE and a printed
     manual for the software.  You will also receive, when available,
     a free upgrade of PKLITE.

     Please state the version number of the software you are presently
     using.  For registration information, including price
     information, contact PKWARE at the following location:


             PKWARE, Inc.
             9025 North Deerwood Drive
             Brown Deer, WI 53223

             (414) 354-8699  Voice
             (414) 354-8559  Fax
             (414) 354-8670  BBS




































                                     4

     5.  SOFTWARE LICENSE
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     The software license agreement is shown below.


     PKLITE (tm)   Executable File Compressor   Version 1.13    8-01-91
     Copyright 1990-1991 PKWARE Inc.  All Rights Reserved.  Patent Pending


     You are free to use, copy and distribute PKLITE for noncommercial
     use IF:

      - No fee is charged for use, copying or distribution.

      - It is not modified in any way.

     Usage of the software to create compressed executables for
     commercial software requires registration of the PKLITE
     Professional Package (tm) for $146.  This version includes an
     extra compression option so that compressed executables cannot be
     uncompressed by PKLITE.

     PKWARE hereby disclaims all warranties relating to this
     software, whether express or implied, including without
     limitation any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness
     for a particular purpose. PKWARE will not be liable for any
     special, incidental, consequential, indirect or similar damages
     due to loss of data or any other reason, even if PKWARE or an
     agent of PKWARE has been advised of the possibility of such
     damages.  In no event shall PKWARE's liability for any damages
     ever exceed the price paid for the license to use software,
     regardless of the form of the claim.  The person using the
     software bears all risk as to the quality and performance of the
     software.

     If you find PKLITE easy, and convenient to use, a registration of
     $46.00 would be appreciated.  Registration includes one free
     upgrade to the software and a printed manual.  Please state the
     version of the software that you currently have.

















                                     5

     II.  USING PKLITE
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     This section describes the command line structure of PKLITE and
     explains the options.



     1.  EXPLANATION OF THE COMMAND LINE
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     PKLITE is an easy to use file compression program.  All of the
     commands used with PKLITE are entered on the command line at the
     DOS prompt.  The command options used with PKLITE are explained
     in detail in the following section, along with examples.


     The PKLITE command line structure is shown below.


     PKLITE  [options] [d:][path] Infile  [[d:][path] Outfile]


          PKLITE = The PKWARE executable compression program.

          options = The different PKLITE options that you can specify.

          [d:] [path] Infile = The name and path location of the
               executable file being compressed (or expanded),
               also know as the source file.

          [d:] [path] Outfile = The name and path location of the
               destination file you want to rename or to
               relocate the compressed or expanded file.


     NOTE:  Parameters listed in [ ] are optional.




















                                     6

     EXAMPLES:

     A simple example is shown below.

     C:\DOS> PKLITE  attrib.exe

     In this example the file attrib.exe will be compressed and the
     compressed version of the file will overwrite the original
     version.  After you type the command shown above, PKLITE will
     display the following information on the screen.


     PKLITE (tm)   Executable File Compressor   Version 1.13    8-01-91
     Copyright 1990-1991 PKWARE Inc.  All Rights Reserved.  Patent Pending

     Compressing: attrib.exe
     Original Size: 10656  Compressed Size: 6790   Ratio: 36.3


     After a file is compressed with PKLITE, it will display several
     pieces of important information.  PKLITE will list the name of
     the original file, original size of the file, the compressed
     size, and the compression ratio.  The output filename and
     location will also be listed if they are different than the
     original filename and location.  An example is shown below.


     The following example illustrates the use of an output file to
     change the name and location of the file after it is compressed.


     C:\> PKLITE  light.exe  A:smlight.exe

     PKLITE (tm)   Executable File Compressor   Version 1.13    8-01-91
     Copyright 1990-1991 PKWARE Inc.  All Rights Reserved.  Patent Pending

     Compressing: LIGHT.EXE into file A:SMLIGHT.EXE
     Original Size: 18466   Compressed Size: 12299   Ratio: 33.4



















                                     7

     Listed below is a summary of important facts to keep in mind
     while using PKLITE.

     -The commands can be typed using either upper case or lower case.

     -All command options for the software must be preceded by a '-'
      character or the MS-DOS switch character (usually '/').

     -Options can be combined (i.e. "-o -b" or "-ob").

     -If no extension for the source file is specified, PKLITE will
      automatically compress any files with that particular name and a
      .EXE or .COM extension.

     -If no destination file is listed on the command line, the
      compressed file will have the same name as the source file and
      will be located in the same directory (i.e. it will overwrite
      the source file).

     -Typing PKLITE on the command line with no options, will bring up
      a help screen listing all the program options.


      CAUTION

          It is very important that you do not use PKLITE on original
          program diskettes.  You should always make a copy of the
          original diskettes that are supplied with an application,
          and work only from the copies.  All original diskettes
          should be kept in safe place.



























                                     8

     The following table lists all the options available with PKLITE.
     A brief summary is also given in the table.  The options are
     explained in detail, along with programming examples in the
     following section.



                        PKLITE COMMAND OPTIONS
         컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
         Option      Summary

           -a        Always compress files with internal overlays
                     and optimize relocations.

           -b        Make backup .BAK file of original.

           -e        Extra compression method. (Commercial Version)

           -l        Display software license screen.

           -n        Never compress files with overlays or optimize 
                     relocations.

           -o        Overwrite output file if it exists.

           -r        Remove extra .EXE data.

           -u        Update file time/date to current time/date.

           -x        Expand a compressed file.

         컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴



























                                     9

     2.  PKLITE OPTIONS
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     The PKLITE options are described below.


     -a   Always Compress Files With Internal Overlays and Optimize
          Relocations

       This option is used to tell PKLITE to always compress files even
       though they use internal overlays.  Programs which use overlays
       loaded from .EXE files, may not run normally when in compressed
       form.  PKLITE will detect if a program file contains internal
       overlays.  It will prompt you for confirmation before it
       compresses any files with overlays if you do not use the -a
       option.

       This option will also tell PKLITE to always optimize headers.
       PKLITE 1.13 tests the relocation table to see if it can be optimized
       for better compression.  This performs the same operation as
       running HDROPT before PKLITE.  

         C:\> PKLITE  -a  *.EXE

       In the example shown above, PKLITE will compress all of the .EXE
       files in the current directory even if internal overlays are
       detected.  You will not be prompted for confirmation before any
       files are compressed.  The files will overwrite the original
       files since there is no destination directory specified.


       NOTE:  Overlay data is not compressed by PKLITE, however the load
       image data located before the overlay data is compressed.  Some
       programs require that the overlay data in the .EXE file be
       located at a specified point in the .EXE file.  These programs
       will not run correctly when compressed with PKLITE.  Programs
       that do not run correctly can be returned to their original state
       with the -x option.



















                                     10

     -b   Make Backup .BAK File of Original

       This option will create a backup file of the original
       uncompressed file with a .BAK extension.  The file will be
       located in the same directory as the original file.

       If you use the -b option when a file with the same name as the
       source file and a .BAK extension already exists at the
       destination, it will be overwritten.

       If an output file is specified with the -b option, the -b option
       will be ignored.

         C:\GAMES> PKLITE  -b  GAME.EXE

       In the example shown above, the program GAME.EXE will be
       compressed, and a backup of the original file called GAME.BAK
       will be created and located in the GAMES directory.


       You can also retain the original file in its uncompressed state
       by specifying a destination file on the command line by using the
       [[d:][path] Outfile] option.  By using this feature, you rename
       the compressed file and retain the source file in its original
       form.

         C:\PK> PKLITE  PROG.COM  PROGCMP.COM

       In this example, the file PROG.COM will be compressed and the
       compressed version of the file will be named PROGCMP.COM.  By
       renaming the file, the uncompressed version of the file
       (PROG.COM) will be retained in its original form.

























                                     11

     -e   Use Extra Compression Method

       (* Option available only in PKLITE Professional version *)

       This option is used to produce the smallest executable files.  It
       uses a slightly different algorithm, which also scrambles the
       excutable file.  This scrambling makes the executable data more
       resistant to disassembly or "reverse engineering" procedures.
       After a file is compressed using this method, it cannot be
       expanded to match the original executable file.  If you attempt
       to expand it using the -x option, PKLITE will return a message
       stating the file cannot be expanded.  This option is ideal for
       software developers who wish to distribute their programs in
       compressed form.

         C:\DATA> PKLITE  -e  TEST.EXE  A:

       In the example shown above, PKLITE will use the extra compression
       method to compress TEST.EXE.  The compressed file will be located
       on the A: drive.


     -l   Display software license screen

       This option is used to display the PKLITE software license
       agreement.  It is also printed on page 5 of this manual.  To
       display the license agreement, type the following on the command
       line.

         C:\> PKLITE  -l



























                                     12

     -n   Never Compress Files With Overlays or Optimize Relocation Table

       This option is used to tell PKLITE to never compress files that
       use overlays.  Programs which use overlays loaded from .EXE
       files, may not run normally when in compressed form.  PKLITE will
       detect when a program file contains overlays and will
       automatically skip it.  If you do not use this feature, PKLITE
       will prompt you for confirmation before compressing any files
       with overlays.

         C:\DATA> PKLITE  -n  *.EXE  C:\DATA\COMP

       In the example shown above, PKLITE will compress all of the .EXE
       files in the DATA directory as long as they do not use overlays.
       The compressed files will be placed in the C:\DATA\COMP
       destination directory.









































                                     13

     -o   Overwrite Output File if it Exists

       This option is used when you specify a destination file (output
       file) on the command line.  If a file with the same name as the
       output file that you have specified already exists at the
       destination, it will automatically be overwritten when you use
       this command.  If you do not use this option, PKLITE will prompt
       you for confirmation before it overwriting any existing output
       file.

         C:\PKWARE> PKLITE  -o  PROG.EXE  A:\TINYPROG.EXE

       In the example shown above, PKLITE will compress PROG.EXE and
       will locate the compressed version of the program on the A:
       drive.  The compressed version of the program will be named
       TINYPROG.EXE.  If a file called TINYPROG.EXE already exists on
       the A: drive, it will automatically be overwritten.

       NOTE:  The -o option is only necessary if a output file is
       specified.





































                                     14

     -r   Remove Extra .EXE Data

       This option will compress a file and discard any data appended
       after the load image data.  This data could be setup information,
       overlay data, or debugging information.

       The -r option should be used only when you are sure there is
       extra data in the file located after the load image data.  Only
       use this option if you know you will no longer need this extra
       data.  It may delete overlay or other important data.

         C:\NET>  PKLITE  -r  *.EXE

       This example will compress all of the files in the C:\NET
       directory that have a .EXE extension.  It will also discard any
       data appended to the files.


       CAUTION

          This option should be used with caution.  It can endanger the
          operation of the files being compressed.

          THE EXTRA DATA CANNOT BE RESTORED WITH THE -X.

































                                     15

     -u   Update File Time/Date to Current Time/Date

       This option will assign the current time and date to the file
       that you are compressing.  If you do not use this option, the
       time and date of the compressed file will be set to the time and
       date of the original file by default.

         C:\PKWARE> PKLITE  -u  FILE.COM  B:

       In the example shown above, the program FILE.COM will be
       compressed and the compressed version of the program will be
       located on the B: drive.  The compressed file will retain the
       same name (FILE.COM) as the original file.  However, the time and
       date will be updated to the current time and date at the time the
       file was compressed.










































                                     16

     -x   Expand a Compressed File

       This option will expand any files you have compressed with
       PKLITE.  When you use this option, the file will be returned to
       its original size.  You can rename and/or relocate a file when
       you expand it by using the [[d:][path] Outfile] option on the
       command line.

         C:\> PKLITE  -x  FILE.EXE  A:

       In the example shown above, the compressed file FILE.EXE will be
       expanded and the expanded file will be located on the A: drive.

       After a compressed file is expanded, PKLITE will display several
       important facts.  PKLITE will list the name of the compressed
       file, original (compressed) size of the file, and the expanded
       size of the file.  The output file and location will also be
       listed if appropriate.  An example is shown below.

         C:\> PKLITE  -x FILE1.EXE  FILE2

       Expanding: FILE1.EXE into file FILE2.EXE
       Original Size: 12299    Expanded Size: 18466


       NOTE:  The expand option can be used with the following options:

          -b  Create Backup file
          -o  Overwrite option
          -u  Update time/date



























                                     17

     When the -x option is used with the -b option, a backup of the
     compressed version of the file will be created with a .BAK
     extension.

     When the -x option is used with the -o option, PKLITE will
     overwrite any same-named files without prompting you for
     confirmation.

     You can also use the -x option along with the -u Update option to
     update to the current time and date when expanding a file.  (If
     you used the -u Update time/date option when you compressed the
     program, then when you expand it, it will retain the new time and
     date.  The time/date does not return to the original value.)












































                                     18

     III.  PROGRAMS THAT SHOULD NOT BE COMPRESSED
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     PKLITE can compress most executable files.  However, there are
     some applications that cannot be compressed, or do not run
     correctly when compressed.  The following is a sample list of
     such programs.

     COMMAND.COM   MS DOS Command interpreter and shell.

               This program has a self-contained loader.  It will
               attempt to load data which is compressed and fail.

     CV.EXE    Microsoft Codeview debugging program.
               When run in compressed form, the program returns:
               Invalid format in CV.EXE.

               The program does a run time check on the .EXE file, and
               in compressed form the error is reported.  PKLITE
               cannot detect this and compresses the file without any
               warnings.


     C2.EXE    Part of Microsoft C 6.00 compiler.
               When run in compressed form it reports:
                  Overlay not found.

               This is an example of a program with internal overlays
               where the overlay manager works incorrectly with the
               compressed .EXE file.  When compressing with PKLITE,
               the overlay data will be detected and the user will be
               prompted as to whether this file should be compressed.


     FOXPRO.EXE   FoxPro 1.00 - 1.02 Database program.

               This program contains internal overlays.  It will not
               run correctly when in compressed form.

















                                     19

     PIFEDIT.EXE  Microsoft Windows PIF editing program.

               PKLITE cannot compress any Microsoft Windows executable
               files.  PKLITE detects whether the file being
               compressed is a Windows application, and will not
               attempt to compress it.


     MAKEINI.EXE  OS/2 program.

               PKLITE cannot compress any OS/2 executable files.
               PKLITE detects whether the file being compressed is an
               OS/2 application, and will not attempt to compress it.


     Programs that modify the executable file.

               Programs that modify the load image data in a
               executable file will not work correctly in the
               compressed state.  Many programs have setup programs
               that modify the executable file itself.  An example of
               this would be the PUTAV program in PKZIP version 1.10.
               If run on a compressed version of PKZIP, the message
               "Error in: PKZIP.EXE" will be displayed.  The PKZIP
               program should be expanded to its original size with
               the -x option before running PUTAV.  After installing
               the AV, PKZIP may be recompressed.

               Programs that modify the extra overlay data or data
               stored at the end of the .EXE file may run correctly in
               compressed form, since only the load image data is
               compressed by PKLITE.  StupenDOS version 2.0 is an
               example of such a program.  Setup information is
               appended to the .EXE file.  Therefore, saving the setup
               works correctly with StupenDOS even when in compressed
               form.





















                                     20

     IV.  PKLITE ERROR MESSAGES
     컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

     The following error messages may appear when using PKLITE.  A
     brief explanation of each message along with possible solutions
     is listed below.  The DOS errorlevel value returned with each
     error is also listed.

     1  Syntax Error

          This error appears when the PKLITE command line you have
          entered contains a syntax error.  When this occurs, PKLITE
          will print the help screen showing all the program options
          on the monitor.

     2  File extension must be EXE or COM

          The file you have attempted to compress does not have a .EXE
          or .COM extension.  If the file is in fact an executable
          file, you can rename the file with a .EXE or .COM extension
          and then compress it.

     3  Cannot open input file

          The file you have attempted to compress cannot be opened by
          PKLITE.  Either a disk error occurred, or the file is locked
          by another application.  You must make sure it is a true
          executable file.

     4  Could not open output file

          PKLITE could not create the output file.  Either a disk
          error has occurred, or the file is locked by another
          application.  If you have specified an output file, make
          sure it is a valid filename and location.






















                                     21

     5  Write error

          An error has occurred in writing a file to disk.  PKLITE is
          not able to write to a necessary file.  Either a disk error
          has occurred, or the file is locked by another application.

     6  Disk full error

          There is not enough disk space available on the destination
          drive for the file being created.  PKLITE never deletes the
          original file until it is finished writing the compressed
          file, therefore, there must be enough free disk space for
          the compressed file and the original file.  Try to free up
          more disk space.

     7  Read error

          PKLITE is not able to read a specified file.  Check the
          file;  it may be corrupted.

     8  Create error

          The named file could not be created.  Check the output
          directory; it may be invalid or full.

     9  Memory error

          There is insufficient memory available to process the
          command.  Try making more memory available.  PKLITE requires
          a minimum of 85K memory.

     10  Cannot compress file into itself

          The file being compressed and the output file are the same.
          When specifying an output file, make sure the output file is
          not the same as the input file.
          Incorrect:  PKLITE   pat.exe  pat
          Correct:    PKLITE   pat.exe



















                                     22

     11  EXE header error

          The header information of the file contains too much
          information to be compressed.  If memory is limited,
          increasing the amount of memory available to PKLITE may
          help.

     12  No extract code error

          You are attempting to expand a file (with -x) but the
          extract code is corrupted or missing.  Make sure the file
          has been compressed with PKLITE.

     13  Data error

          An error has been detected in the compressed data.  The file
          is corrupted.

     14  Compressing many files into one file error

          You are attempting to compress multiple files into one
          output file.  For example:  PKLITE  *.exe  file.exe.
          Correct the command line.

     15  Output wildcards error

          The output path/file cannot contain any wildcard characters
          ('*' or '?').  Correct the command line.

     MS-DOS, Codeview, C Optimizing Compiler, Windows and OS/2 are
     trademarks or registered trademarks of Microsoft Corp.
     Foxpro is a trademark of Fox Software.
     PKZIP, PKUNZIP are registered trademarks of PKWARE, Inc.
























                                     23

