

Command:

    PKSFANSI [/c]


Purpose:

    PKSFANSI (PK Safe ANSI) is a Terminate and Stay Resident program
    that disables ANSI Keyboard Key Reassignments, thereby preventing
    'ANSI bombs' embedded in any text file (such as README files) or
    output by any program.

    Normally, ANSI sequences that redefine the keyboard could be
    hidden inside ANY text file or program, and could be executed
    completely unnoticed until it is too late.	PKSFANSI intercepts
    calls to ANSI.SYS or other ANSI device drivers, and filters out
    any keyboard reassignments, while allowing other ANSI sequences
    through unaltered.

    If a keyboard key reassignment is attempted, PKSFANSI will
    intercept the sequence and discard it.  PKSFANSI also will BEEP
    to alert you that a reassignment was attempted.

    PKSFANSI requires only 832 bytes resident RAM, and should work
    with any ANSI driver, such as the standard ANSI.SYS driver,
    NANSI, ZANSI, DVANSI, etc.	Note that if you use a memory
    resident ANSI driver, such as the DESQview DVANSI.COM driver,
    that PKSFANSI should be loaded AFTER the ANSI driver is loaded.

    The /c switch causes PKSFANSI to discard any ANSI sequences
    that would change the colour of your screen.  This is especially
    useful on LCD, black & white, and monochrome monitors to prevent
    ANSI files from changing the screen colours.


License:

    PKSFANSI(tm)  Copyright 1989,1992 PKWARE Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

    This program is free.

    You are free to use, copy and distribute PKSFANSI providing:

	  No fee is charged for use, copying or distribution.

	  It is not modified in any way.

    Clubs and user groups may charge a nominal fee not to exceed
    ($10) for expenses and handling while distributing PKSFANSI.


    If you have any questions about PKSFANSI or want to find out
    more about other PKWARE products contact:

    PKWARE Inc.
    9025 N. Deerwood Dr.
    Brown Deer, WI 53223

    or call the PKWARE Support BBS at 414-354-8670, available
    24 hours.


Disclaimer:

    PKWARE hereby disclaims all warranties relating to this
    software, whether express or implied, including without
    limitation any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness
    for a particular purpose.  PKWARE will not be liable for any
    special, incidental, consequential, indirect or similar damages
    due to loss of data or any other reason, even if PKWARE or an
    agent of PKWARE has been advised of the possibility of such
    damages.  In no event shall PKWARE's liability for any damages
    ever exceed the price paid for the license to use software,
    regardless of the form of the claim.  The person using the
    software bears all risk as to the quality and performance of the
    software.



DESQview is a registered trademark of Quarterdeck Office Systems


Revision History
----------------

07-27-89  1.0	 Initial release.

07-30-89  1.1	 Reduced resident memory usage to less than 1000 bytes.
		 Enhanced DOC file.

12-28-92  2.04c  Reduced resident memory usage to 832 bytes.
		 Added /c switch.  Added check to prevent
		 loading of PKSFANSI more than once.  Changed
		 version number to be consistent with PKZIP.

