RUDEdos by Paul Tauger                            Page 1 
Version 2.0
 
 
                            RUDEdos 
 
    This is a totally safe program that turns a PC into a surly, 
uncooperative pain in the neck.  Just type: 
 
                        RUDEDOS <return> 
 
    Starting entering DOS commands. NOTE: NDOSEDIT and other DOS 
command line processors will be disabled.  TSR's such as SIDEKICK 
will continue to function. 
 
    When RUDEdos gets annoyed enough, it will lock the keyboard 
and blank the screen.  The screen can be restored by hitting any 
key several times. 
 
    Exit RUDEdos by pressing CTL-A at any RUDEdos prompt. 
 
 
                        SUGGESTED USES 
 
    1.  Place a call to RUDEdos in your autoexec.bat file. 
Your PC will automatically boot up in RUDEdos.  Astonish your 
co-workers, friends and supervisors. RUDEdos provides security -- 
unless you know the hot key combination (CTL-A), you will not be 
able to access other PC functions.  RUDEdos does not acknowledge 
either CTL-C or CTL-BREAK. 
 
    2.  Load and run RUDEdos on your friend's (enemy's?) 
machine.  Stay around to watch the results. 
 
    3.  Prove to your non-computer type friends that PC's really 
have personality. 
 
                        GENERAL NOTES 
 
    Remember that RUDEdos is totally harmless and will not hurt 
your machine or any of your files.  The current version performs 
no disk accesses; however, disk accesses are simulated. 
Later versions will provide more variety of responses and 
may access the disk drives.  Version 2.0 will work properly 
with a Hercules (or compatible) monochrome graphics card, 
though it will only display the C> prompt.  Later versions will 
adjust for different graphics cards and active drives. 
 
     If you like RUDEdos, or have any suggestions to make it more 
exasperating, i.e. more fun, please drop me a note at the MIDIum BBS, 
7:30 AM to 5:30 PM PST Monday-Friday, 818 985-5727. 
 
     RUDEdos is FREEWARE -- there is no charge for the software 
and documentation.  Contributions are NOT requested.  However, 
RUDEdos and it's documentation are copyright, all rights 
reserved. 
     You may: 
     1. Make copies for yourself and your friends, provided 
that the documentation and software are distributed together. 
     2. Upload RUDEdos to any FREE BBS, provided that the 
documentation and software are distributed together. 
 
     RUDEdos and RUDEdos documentation copyright 1987-92 by Paul Tauger
                       All rights reserved. 
 
