ษออออออออออออออออออป
บ                  บ
บ  WHAT IS "SEE"?  บ
บ                  บ
ศออออออออออออออออออผ


  SEE is a utility for viewing and printing text files up to 80 characters
  wide.  It can also display hex files in a format that makes it easy for you
  to visually scan the file.  SEE's small size and low price (i.e. FREE!)
  makes it ideal for inclusion with other software, so that the user can read
  the documentation files.

  SEE also lets you extract portions of text from the listing.  The extracted
  portion can be copied to the printer or to a text file.



ษออออออออออออออออออออป
บ                    บ
บ  HOW TO USE "SEE"  บ
บ                    บ
ศออออออออออออออออออออผ


 ีอออออออออออออออธ
 ณ  STARTING UP  ณ
 ิอออออออออออออออพ

 
  At the DOS command prompt, enter SEE followed by the name of the file you
  want to read.  For example:

  SEE MYFILE.TXT


  อออออออออ
  WILDCARDS
  อออออออออ

  If you specify a "DOS Wildcard", you will see a menu of file names that
  match. You can move the cursor to the file you want by using your arrow
  keys.  Then press Enter to see the file.

  For example:

  SEE *.TXT

  would show you all files with the extension TXT.

  If you omit any file specification, SEE assumes you mean *.* so that the
  following command would let you select from all files in the current
  directory:

  SEE


  อออออออออออออออออออออออ
  CROSS-DIRECTORY VIEWING
  อออออออออออออออออออออออ

  SEE normally looks for the files in your current drive and directory.
  However, you can have it look at another drive or directory by specifying
  the path name accordingly, as in this example:

  SEE D:\MYDIR\ACCOUNTS\PAYROLL.TXT


  ออออออออออ
  MONOCHROME
  ออออออออออ

  SEE can normally detect if you have a color display card or not, but no
  DOS program can detect if your monitor can actually display color.  (Some
  people have color display cards with monochrome monitors)  If SEE is
  displaying text in color and you want to force it to display in
  monochrome, add  /M  to the file specification.  For example:

  SEE MYFILE.TXT /M

  This would display the file MYFILE.TXT in black and white.


  ออออออออออ
  QUICK HELP
  ออออออออออ

  For a quick summary of SEE's functions, enter the following command at the
  DOS prompt:

  SEE /?

  This will display several help screens.

  If you are already viewing a file, you can press the F1 key to see the same
  screens.

  At the end of each screen you can press the spacebar to continue to the next
  screen, or press Esc to return to what you were doing (i.e. DOS prompt or
  viewing).



 ีออออออออออออออออธ
 ณ  READING FILES ณ
 ิออออออออออออออออพ


  ออออออออออออออ
  SCROLLING KEYS
  ออออออออออออออ

  Once you have selected the file you want to read, you can scroll back and
  forth in the file a line at a time, using the arrow keys.  You can also jump
  back and forth a screen at a time, using the PgUp and PgDn keys.

  The Home and End keys position the file to the beginning and end,
  respectively.

  The spacebar key moves forward one screen each time it is pressed.  When you
  reach the end of the file, you are returned to the previous operation (i.e.
  the file selection menu, if you started SEE with DOS wildcards, or the DOS
  prompt otherwise).


  อออออออออ
  THE L KEY  ฤฤ  Jump to a line
  อออออออออ

  The L key will ask you for a line number.  It will then jump to that line,
  positioning it at the first line of the viewing area.


  อออออออออ
  THE F KEY  ฤฤ  Find text
  อออออออออ

  The F key will ask you for a text string.  If it finds that string in the
  file, it will jump there, highlighting the line the text is on.  The line
  is positioned in the middle of the screen, if possible.

  To search for the same text again, press the F3 function key.

  For information about the function keys (sometimes called "The F Keys"), see
  the section entitled "The Function Keys", below.


  อออออออออ
  THE C KEY  ฤฤ  Copy part or all of the file to printer or file
  อออออออออ

  The C key sends a copy of the file (or part of it) to your printer, or to
  another file.  See the section entitled "Copying" for details.

  While using the C feature, remember that the Esc key will always return you
  to your previous operation.  If you were looking at the help screens, it
  returns you to the viewing window.  If you were viewing text, it returns you
  to the file selection menu (if you started SEE with DOS wildcards) or the
  DOS prompt otherwise.


  อออออออออออออออออ
  THE FUNCTION KEYS
  อออออออออออออออออ

  F 1  displays the help screens.  See "Quick Help", above, for additional
       information about these screens.

  F 2  displays a "ruler" line, which lets you determine which column text
       starts and ends.

  F 3  repeats the last Find operation (see "The F Key", above).

  F 4  is not used.

  F 5  switches the display to 25 lines, in monochrome.

  F 6  switches the display to 25 lines, in color.

  F 7  switches the display to smaller letters, in monochrome, if you have the
       appropriate display card.  If you have a CGA, Hercules or MCGA card,
       nothing will happen.  If you have an EGA card, you will see 43 lines
       on your screen.  A VGA display card will display 50 lines.

  F 8  does what the F7 key does, but uses color instead of monochrome.

  F 9  is not used.

  F10  is not used.



ษอออออออออออป
บ           บ
บ  COPYING  บ
บ           บ
ศอออออออออออผ


  When you are viewing a file and you press the C (Copy) key, SEE will ask
  you a few questions, then copy part (or all) of the file to the printer, or
  to another file.

  The questions let you specify:

  PORTION:      Which part of the file (some, or all) should be copied.

  DESTINATION:  Which printer you want to print to (LPT1, LPT2 etc.) or which
                file you want to copy to (e.g. SAVE.TXT). If the file already
                exists, you can overwrite it, or add to the end.

  The following two questions apply to printing only:

  CONVERSION:   Whether to convert extended characters or not.

  FORM-FEED:    Whether the printer should "page eject" after printing.

  The printer questions are discussed in more detail, below.

  NOTE:  Before you start printing, make sure your printer is turned on,
  is supplied with paper, and that the "Online" light is lit.  (On some
  printers, the Online light may be labelled "Ready", or something similar.
  Refer to your printer manual if you are not sure.)

  If at any time you wish to exit from the copying process, you can press the
  Esc key.  If you were printing, you may have to turn your printer OFF for a
  moment, then ON again, to reset it and clear its memory.


  อออออออออออออออออออ
  PRINTER DESTINATION
  อออออออออออออออออออ

  When you are asked to select a printer destination, choose the address of
  the printer to which you are copying the text.  You can choose any printer
  from LPT1 to LPT9.  (It is very unusual to have a printer with an address
  higher than LPT2.)

  If you are not sure, select LPT1.  Most PC-compatible computers have their
  printer at that address.  Exception:  if your computer is sharing the
  printer with other computers on a network, check with your network manager
  before proceeding.


  ออออออออออ
  CONVERSION
  ออออออออออ

  Many documents (such as this one) make use of the special characters that
  are available on IBM-PC compatible computers.  Some printers, though
  (particularly older printers and very high speed printers), can not print
  these characters properly.

  If when you print, many of the characters come out wrong, you may have to
  have them "converted".  The conversion process replaces these characters
  with a "reasonable" substitution before printing them.  (Note that this
  affects only the printing; the document you are viewing is NOT changed.)

  For example, accented letters can not be printed on all printers.  So an
  accented "e" would be printed simply as "e", with no accent.  Line- drawing
  characters (for boxes) are also a problem for some printers.  So the
  vertical line character is replaced with the standard "split bar" character,
  which looks almost the same.



ษอออออออออออออออออออออออป
บ                       บ
บ  MISCELLANEOUS NOTES  บ
บ                       บ
ศอออออออออออออออออออออออผ


  The SEE program reads the entire file into memory before beginning.  On a
  system with a moderately heavy overhead of TSR's (pop-ups), you may have
  around 475K of free memory.  This would allow you to view documents of up to
  225 pages (at 66 average lines per page).  If the pages were packed
  extremely densely with long lines and very little blank space, this could be
  reduced to as little as 70 pages.  In most cases, it is safe to assume that
  the typical user will have enough memory for at least 150 pages.

  NOTE TO PROGRAMMERS:  Please remember that if you shell out from a program
  to call up SEE, the available memory may be much less than 475K.

