                                 ZIP Splitter

                                  Version 1.0

                                      by

                                  Ron Alcorn

                             All right(s) reserved
                               Copyright (1989)


         PLEASE PARDON THE SORRY DOCUMENTATION


         WHAT IS ZIP SPLITTER?

         This program will allow you to split up ZIP  Magazine  in  to
         numerous  files  and  also create a table of contents listing
         for the files that were created.  Each file will  contain  an
         individual  section  from  the magazine.  For example, if ZIP
         Magazine had 24 sections in  it,  there  would  be  25  files
         created,    named   ZIP-SECT.1   through   ZIP-SECT.24,   and
         ZIP-SECT.LST, which is the table on contents listing.

         WHY DID I WRITE ZIP SPLITTER?

         Well I was motivated by a few BBS sysops.   They  wanted  ZIP
         Magazine  formatted for online BBS viewing.  Obviously, if we
         did this, then what  would  the  rest  of  the  ZIP  Magazine
         readers that printed it out on paper say?  Well, you know the
         saying, you are darned if you do, and darned if you don't.

         One  sysop  mentioned  that we could make two versions of ZIP
         Magazine, one for printing, and the other for online viewing.
         Well this made sense, but  this  would  also  mean  that  ZIP
         Magazine  would  have a much more costly phone bill.  How so,
         well instead of having to upload ZIP Magazine  once  to  each
         BBS,  we  would now have to upload it twice.  We don't charge
         anything for ZIP Magazine, so I only "partially"  see  it  as
         our  responsibility,  not  "fully".   We  get  donations  and
         subscriptions, but only  a  few,  though  we  are  more  than
         gracious to receive them.  Not only that, we feel that we are
         lucky  that  people  even like ZIP Magazine.  We thank all of
         you, no matter what!

         Shortly after these happenings,  I  got  fed  up  with  Quick
         Basic,  which I had been using for quite a while.  Actually I
         having nothing against the language itself, but the  size  of
         the  compiled  files  were  just  too big, especially when an
         external library was being used!  This motivated me to  learn
         Turbo  Pascal,  so  what a better way to start learning a new
         language than making a program that would really be  of  some
         use.

         WHO NEEDS ZIP SPLITTER?

         Mostly sysops that want to support ZIP Magazine.

         HOW TO REGISTER?

         Simple, just call my BBS, write a letter, or  call  me  voice
         and  let  me know you use ZIP Splitter.  The program is free,
         but  a  donation  of  $5  bucks  or  more  would  be  greatly
         appreciated.  Surely this program will save you some time.

         ZIP BBS - (606) 878-9500
         "The Home Of ZIP Magazine"
         1200 to 9600 (V.32 Standard)
         7 P.M. to 7 A.M.  [EST] - Data hours
         12 NOON to 7 P.M. [EST] - Voice hours

         Ron Alcorn
         c/o ZIP Magazine
         147 Foster Heights Rd.
         London, KY  40741

