3 COOL SCAMS
BY: DIzzIE Ó1999


Here are some things you can do on a boring summer afternoon to get some extra cash:

1.	HELPING THE CHURCH =FREE MONEY
 Sometimes Your local cult, errrr, church, will be giving out free bibles, or verses, or new testament books, or something of that sort. Usually they will be in a stack right beside the church or right inside it, on a little table. Grab the books, then look for cardboard boxes (usually under the table) full of the books. Get those too! Then run away from that place of evil. Then go to the other side of town and start selling the books for about a buck a book. Say you're helping raise money for the church to buy food and heating for the homeless shelters. Some good people to sell the books to are old ladies, and politicians. Yup! Politicians (or used car salesmen), come up to one while they are being taped on tv and ask them to buy several books, they will look pretty bad if they don't buy any books.

2.	SELLING STUFF FROM CATALOGS =FREE MONEY
You know those companies that send you catalogs of overpriced magazines and other shit, and actually expect you to go door to door and sell their products, so they get all the money, and you get 5%, or a little cheap prize? Ofcourse you do! Well why not reward your work and get a 100% profit? Just go and sell the stuff in another neighborhood, and keep all the money you make. If the person who actually bought something asks for a receipt that supposed to have your phone number and address on it, just right down some other looser's number. 
    Need help finding a company that actually does that? (sends you catalogs of stuff and expects you to sell them) (yes, they do exist). Here's a company like this: just write to them or phone them and ask them for a sales kit
Olympia Sales Club
215 Moody Rd P.O. Box 1800
Enfield, CT 06083-1800
Phone # 1-860-763-3561
Email : olympiaOSI@aol.com
Web: www.olympiaosi.com

3.	DOOR TO DOOR CHARITY =FREE MONEY AND OTHER STUFF
This scam has been around for a while now, but it still works. Just get a coffee can and cover the outside with a typed paper that says "American Cancer Society Fundraiser," or "M.A.D.D. Fundraiser." Next just go door to door and give this speech about collecting money for that particular organization. Be sure to wear a suit, and comb your hair. You can also say that you are collecting other stuff to like old furniture, canned goods. If they give you any of that you can keep it or resell it at a garage sail or swap meet to get even more cash!
Well have fun kids! 
You can always email me at: xcon0@yahoo.com or fax at 1-559-663-4067
