The Truth of Being An Anarchist

What all should know...




	Hello, I am writing this file to tell people what true anarchy is. I cannot tell you my name, however I would love to if it didn't mean someone
tracking this down. I could slap on a lame alias like some others do. They hide behind a name, however they aren't so bright.

	I am too smart for you. In you, I am speaking about the Government, and their Children. In this file, I will be confessing things that I shouldn't
be doing, but if you can see like me in the end of all of this, you'll understand why.

	I do not hate people, people hate me. I am going to tell you in this textfile what Anarchy is. I hope you will consider all aspects on it before
you judge me or my profession. The Government is everywhere. All through time they have limited us. People, rose up from the ashes of chaos, and brought upon a controlled and fake reality trying to make things look better, when in fact, we still lay upon the same ashes. People who have power, want, and
always WILL have power. That is certain. The government has evolved a lot since the beginning. However our society has done nothing but crumble.

	Anarchy, defined in textbooks, and in dictionaries, as complete absense of government, and total chaos. An Anarchist, also defined as a follower
and a person who condones Anarchy. You have to realize something. Who made these remarks? The Government.

	They control you, whether you see it or not. You pay money to lives here. In this country that God has given us. In this whole world. We are not
meant to have to have money to live here. To even breathe the air of this world, we have to pay something. People struggle over each other for power. It
is a known fact to me. The Government is supposed to make sure we don't destroy ourselves, but have contributed to it more than any source of power I have
ever seen in my entire life. They cover up most of their information, and have KILLED, to make it stay a secret.

	I don't care about conspiracies, but I do know that the government kills. Power, kills. Power is what drives the government. The Government puts
out stories, and explanations for different things, they make all sorts of mistakes, and their successes due to their power. Guess where the blame gets
shifted to? That's riiiiight. To us. Anarchists. They label us as terrors to society, and write us off as common criminals. This could not be farther from
the truth.

	Here is what an Anarchist is: An Anarchist believes in free information. Absolute Freedom from paying money for things that are rightfully
part of society. They believe that anything, and everything should be accessed freely. A real Anarchist believes not in chaos, but in peace. All we want,
is to just be a part of society, where there would be no worries of anything bad ever happening. We do not believe in complete absense of Government, that
is completely a false statement from the Government. If they would do their job right, then we would be all for it.

	Here is what an Anarchist is NOT: We are not Terrorists. We don't go around blowing things up. We don't hate cops, we don't hate people. We aren't
what you think we are. We don't condone evil acts. We don't steal when we want something. We don't go around commiting crimes. We are NOT bad people.

	People go around labeling themselves Anarchists. They make bombs, and blow themselves/others up, causing bloodshed for the cause we are stereo-
typed for. They think that they have to bash on the Government, or cause harm, to make a false statement clear. These people are NOT anarchists. They
are criminals. Do not give them the honor of being called Anarchists.

	I, am an Anarchist. I am not who you think I am. I'm not a lowlife who goes around every night blowing up cars. I have not once used improper
language. I don't believe I can make a point by cussing out the people that hate me. I am not saying what I do is right, but I have to do what I can to
get by. A true Anarchist does not do things for personal gain. I have lied, to save myself trouble, and to continue having what Freedom this world will
allow me. I have stolen, but to get supplies that I can not have due to the Government limiting my access to resources. I have killed, and with great
remorse. I have never killed a man that wasn't wanting to kill me first.

	I may have killed part of your family, and maybe a friend. I do what I have to, to get by. To the police, to the Government, I don't hate you.
I don't kill because I enjoy it. I kill because I fear for my own life. This burden I have been placed with comes with nothing but remorse.


	There you have it, I have stated what an Anarchist is. Now I have three letters, made out to the four parts of society I need to get through to
the most.


Dear Anarchist in Training

	Be nothing but honest with yourself. Ask yourself if what you are doing is because of wanting to hurt, or wanting Freedom. If you stand for what is
above, then I want you to fight for it. Never let yourself down. If you HAVE been going for the stereotyped Anarchist goal, then you will surely fail. If
it is because you want to be important, or because you want to be looked up upon. Then I suggest you do something different. Don't be like the criminals
that give me a bad name. Fight for what is right. Do what you have to do, and if it be bad, then feel remorse over it. Be not a cold hearted murderer. If
you do this for the glory, if you do it for the thrill, and if you do it to harm, then shame on you.

	Emotion is not a weakness, it is a strength that keeps you from stumbling on the harse road of reality. If you choose to be a criminal, do it in the
name of Satan, and evil, not in the name of Anarchy. Yes, I am a Christian. I believe in God, and I know right from wrong. If you do not have a faith, then
you are doomed. If you do not feel remorse, then you will join the damned.

	This is all I have to say to you. Fight for freedom, not for personal gain. I can't explain everything. However, read on to see which ethics would
best suit someone of your class. Learn from me, I am what Anarchy should stand for.

Sincerely,
          -Me


Dear Wannabe Anarchist

	You are what I call a labeled Anarchist. You do things to harm, and you have fun doing what is bad. You are a sick part of this world's existance.
You would risk your Freedom to slap your Alias on something you think you should be proud of. You do not believe in God, and should be ASHAMED. You are NOT
an Anarchist, you don't have the guts to stand up for Freedom. You are no better than the Government. You're a terrorist, not a Freedom Fighter. Go home lad
before you get yourself thrown in prison.

	Funny how I say that, because I am only 15 myself. I am considered a teenager, however I have the mind of an adult. Me still being here proves that
You don't have to be an adult to be smart and respectable. I am a human being, not a child. If I am stereotyped as one too, then it looks as though you are
not mature enough to understand my purpose, my destiny in life. Odds are, most of you are minors, trying to belong. So like I said: Go home.

From,
       -Me


Dear Government, and Children of Government

	First of all, I want to say something to the law enforcement officers of my town, which I cannot disclose. To the law enforcements everywhere. I do
not blame you for what you stand for. I have broken your laws, but I respect you for what you do. The Government has you trained to seek us out. I can not
say or do anything to change that. I see you not, as someone I am against. However, if you ever meet me, I cannot let my Freedom be taken. I do not taunt
you from afar. I wish I could just talk to each and every one of you. I am a normal person who wishes harm to nobody. Just think that if only we could live
in peace, nothing bad would happen. I feel as though we have a relationship. As human beings I believe you can relate to me. I don't mean harm to people.
However if you shoot at me, or pull a gun on me, I must act in self defense. It would be great if you could join me. We are both peacemakers. However I work
for the right peacemaker.

	To Government itself. I must say that I am ashamed of you, and I will not be bound by your power driven attempts at world domination. I will get as
many people as I can to come with me. Walk on the path of Freedom and Peace, and eliminate the evil in this world. We are currently at War. It is your own
fault we have to start the Apocalypse. Your power trips are endless, and one day we will rise up to defeat you.

	To all children, you have been BRAINWASHED by the government. Why don't you stop and follow what you think is right, rather than believe the law's
jargan about what Anarchy stands for. I am among you, whether you want me there or not. I am your brother, yet you neglect me. I am trying to pull you out
of this lethal trap the Government has you in, but you still think it is a good place. I ask of you though, let me pass through, without harm, and I assure
you, you will get none in return.

	All I wanna do is live. And you don't want that to happen to me. I do not threaten you, for it would make no difference. I will continue doing what
I am doing, and you will not stop me until you get what you want, my death, but I assure you that it will not come easy.

Ponder this and reconsider what you think of me,
                              -Me

Dear Fellow Anarchist

	The pride of society, hello, and I thank you for reading this document. I confide in you, and trust in you to help me lead a new order of Peace.
If you feel as though this will be good to the children of the Government, then pass it on. It's always good to have this knowledge spread out. Post it on
your webpages, print it out, and post it at your schools, workplaces, and let it be known on the media. Let the entire World know of the way of Anarchy,
and it's true meaning.

	I DO condone doing anything you need to do to get this document known.

Let Freedom Ring!

         -Me, your Fellow Anarchist


I say goodbye to you all, for I have work to do. I hope you can live right, and have the best life that God has given you.