WE ARE NOT
----------

I am writing that file because someone have written a file which is
the greatest garbage i have ever seen.

that person attacks Muslims everywhere, why? i don't know why .. he is
saying the same words of that person named "bush" , may be he is a
small child who don't even know what he is talking about, the only
thing he can talk about is "sex" , and he goes insulting the whole
muslims by saying we are the terrorists, you are judgeing every
muslims by the fault of some people, those people are not muslims ...
and you talked about "ben-laden" and forgot that he is a CIA agent,
and blaming him for blowing the world trade center, (to tell you the
truth ,, NOBODY blow anything before the goverment approves that) and
you said that we hate the west .. we don't hate any body, look what
you are saying "McDonalds's and malls" what is that? what do you call
that? it just useless words , you are playing video games much these
days .. i cannot stop my self from thinking who are the real
terrorists ... have you found mass destruction weapons in Iraq..
offcourse not because it is found in "bush" imagination... you
destroyed a whole country just to have your oil and have your
factories working ... you wanna know who are the real terrorists go to
a news station which have the freedom of speech,, before you write
garbage like that ,, i don't hate America cause i don't judge by the
doings of some people who are in control , america once was a great
country but now i cannot see the future , may be it will understand
and stop that evil ,, or may be it will go to the swamp...........
people of america don't know where is the truth,because there is the
hands of evil keeps on hiding it..and tells them we are terrorists we
are the people must terminated cause we are a hazard to americans ...

i am going to stop because the words written by me won't change your
sick mind - i saw your words while i am passing by .. i had to send
this because anybody hears this words will have a pain in heart...

if you asked , yes i am a Muslim ... Peace on everyone

By ScrollLock

