
Anti-Piracy |FIXED BY REAL INTERNET PEOPLE |++++Pyromania++++| THE INTERNET 
IS FREE

Old as the Barbary Coast, New as the Internet - No black flags with skull 
and crossbones, no cutlasses, cannons, or daggers identify today’s pirates. 
You can’t see them coming; there’s no warning shot across your bow. Yet rest 
assured the pirates are out there because today there is plenty of gold (and 
platinum and diamonds) to be had(RIAA GET OUT OF MY WALLET). Today’s pirates 
operate not on the high seas but on the Internet(Bullshit), in illegal CD 
factories(what are we making cyber drugs too WOO you rip off your own 
artists), distribution centers, and on the street. The pirate’s credo is 
still the same--why pay for it when it’s so easy to steal?(Your credo is the 
same too, Treat the Population like sheep, make them feel bad and ignore the 
fact you jumped the prices of cds from a max of 15 to 25 But yeah Sure and 
you go on about how wrong as it was ever? Being a con artist is Wrong and 
Illegal and you guys are doing a hell of a job at Lieing and stealing) The 
credo is as wrong as it ever was. Stealing is still illegal(Unless your a 
big company like MCI WORLDCOM or ENRON), unethical, and all too frequent in 
today’s digital age(YOUR MAKING SOMTHING OUT OF NOTHING). That is why RIAA 
continues to fight music piracy. Oh yes lets see A cd is 15-25 a pop i mean 
at Min wage that is 3-6 hrs. You Guys have the Black flags and the Weapons, 
Your fighting kids who are innocent and just want to listen to music, So not 
just fuck the riaa But Fuck Your Evil Black Money Grubbing Greedy Hearts. 
you heartless bastards.  A bunch of kids download music and it doesnt hurt 
your cd sales at all because THE CDS WERENT SELLING BEFORE. WHY?? THEY COST 
TOO FUCKING MUCH YOU STUPID FUCKING MORONS. We do not download a cd cause we 
want to steal it, WE ARE TOO BROKE TO BUY YOUR CDS. We arent rich, rich kids 
have cds and they share but you wouldnt fuck with a rich kid dling music 
cause they have enough money to really sue your ass. Now us Poor Kids/and 
Teenagers And Adults who cant afford a big corperate lawyer leave us without 
kissing or giving us a slap on the ass.

"Piracy" generally refers to the illegal duplication and distribution of 
sound recordings|Piracy is actrully more like a Gang on the seas, Like 
anygang they do not follow the laws of the country cause they are trying to 
form there own|. There are four specific categories of music piracy:

    *

      Pirate recordings are the unauthorized duplication of only the sound 
of legitimate recordings, as opposed to all the packaging, i.e. the original 
art, label, title, sequencing, combination of titles etc. This includes 
mixed tapes and compilation CDs featuring one or more artists. (Copyright 
law, It is illegal to Distribute *Meaning SELL not give* Unauthorised copies 
*meaning you made them and sold them* If i copy a song of the radio is it 
illegal? Actrully No, The Cds are allready bought and they are shared with a 
friend or 2, and then they share it, It is not Illegal To SHARE music, 
Because then IT IS ILLEGAL to do radio.
    *

      Counterfeit recordings are unauthorized recordings of the prerecorded 
sound as well as the unauthorized duplication of original artwork, label, 
trademark and packaging.
You can make copies of a Movie, Dvd, Cd, Games all you want. AS LONG AS YOU 
DONT SELL IT, ITS LEGAL.
    *

      Bootleg recordings (or underground recordings) are the unauthorized 
recordings of live concerts, or musical broadcasts on radio or 
television.|No because recording somthing publicly is not illegal, You can 
record off the radio, You paid for the concert so you can record their too, 
Oh so TIVO IS ILLEGAL????????
    *

      Online piracy is the unauthorized uploading of a copyrighted sound 
recording and making it available to the public, or downloading a sound 
recording from an Internet site, even if the recording isn't resold. Online 
piracy may now also include certain uses of "streaming" technologies from 
the Internet.(NO WHERE on the copyright law it says you cannot Upload or 
Download copyrighted matrial. This is not 1984 and you do not own the music 
after it is sold You just own the rights to sell it)

This right here is the biggest Bullshit.
Many do not understand the significant negative impact of piracy on the 
music industry. Though it would appear that record companies are still 
making their money and that artists are still getting rich, these 
impressions are mere fallacies. Each sale by a pirate represents a lost 
legitimate sale, thereby depriving not only the record company of profits, 
but also the artist, producer, songwriter, publisher, retailer, … and the 
list goes on. The consumer is the ultimate victim, as pirated product is 
generally poorly manufactured and does not include the superior sound 
quality, art work, and insert information included in legitimate product.

Bull Shit Statement.
Each year, the industry loses about $4.2 billion to piracy worldwide -- "we 
estimate we lose millions of dollars a day to all forms of piracy.""Music 
has always been copied and shared, It has never been legit"- Pyromania. The 
USA is in a ressesion and is suffering inflation from greed so Kids Today 
cannot afford 4 cds for 100 bux, Want more money? MAKE THE FUCKING CDS 
CHEAPER!!!!!!

    *

      Music pirates are the first to lose because the recording industry and 
law enforcement officials are cracking down around the world. Do the crime 
and you will pay the fine or do the time.
The so called Pirates arent suffering, Plus the FCC *Federal Communications 
Commision" is saying what the RIAA is doing is ILLEGAL, Infringement is an 
actrual Hacking tool USED by the RIAA scans computers and then threatins 
their ISP to get their address to sue them. The only ones doing a crime is 
the RIAA. Btw does the RIAA know they are being boycotted?
    *

      Consumers also lose because the shortcut savings enjoyed by pirates 
drive up the costs of legitimate product for everyone. Plus, good luck 
returning a pirated tape or CD when the quality is inferior or the product 
is defective, as it often is.
This is their lie to raise prices. Btw www.imesh.com www.limeware.com 
www.imule.com
    *

      Honest retailers (who back up the products they sell) lose because 
they can’t compete with the prices offered by illegal vendors. Less business 
means fewer jobs, jobs often filled by young adults.
Big Companies Outsourcing jobs like making cds to China gets rid of jobs. So 
Older adults fill jobs that usally Young adults get. There are no illegal 
Vendors, Goto the store and look at cd prices. Its a rip off, Cds with 10 
songs are 20-25 bux Nirvana - Nevermind is 20 bux still and it came out over 
10 years ago. Retailers get hurt more off of shoplifting than they do of so 
called illegal vendors "meaning: your sons friend tom bought a cd and burned 
it for him"
    *

      Record companies lose. Eighty-five percent of recordings released 
don’t even generate enough revenue to cover their costs. Record companies 
depend heavily on the profitable fifteen percent of recordings to subsidize 
the less profitable types of music, to cover the costs of developing new 
artists, and to keep their businesses operational. The thieves often don’t 
focus on the eighty-five percent; they go straight to the top and steal the 
gold.
Btw you can make cds real cheap so buying one cds at 25 is like buying 10 
cds, because they do not cost a shitton of money to make. You Screw over 
your artists and make a hell of alot more money off them then they do. Then 
drop em when the fad changes.
    *

      Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the creative artists lose. 
Musicians, singers, songwriters and producers don’t get the royalties and 
fees they’ve earned. Virtually all artists (95%) depend on these fees to 
make a living. The artists also depend on their reputations, which are 
damaged by the inferior quality of pirated copies sold to the public.(LOL 
BULLSHIT LOL) You guys get most of the artists royalties LOL you guys are 
full of shit

Breaking into the music business is no picnic. Piracy makes it tougher to 
survive and even tougher to break through. As recording artist "Tool" noted, 
"Basically, it's about music -- if you didn't create it, why should you 
exploit it? True fans don't rip off their artists."That was maynard james 
keane and they probily told him to say that. But MJK Fuck you, Fuck tool, 
Fuck your lable, Fuck the RIAA. YOU EXPLOIT YOUR FANS, SO SHUT THE FUCK UP. 
who are you to tell your fans what to do. Your fans who support you and buy 
your music and share it with their friends who then goto your concerts to 
see you live *WHICH BTW YOU SUCK LIVE* and enjoy it and now you say Piracy 
isnt cool and your a loser and i hate you if you do it. Big time FUCK YOU . 
Its not a Picnic to make it into the music buisness but im not gonna go suck 
cock in a record company to make it, P2P helps Independant Artists and Bands 
that keep all royalties and can make music freely without the producers who 
make the music POP yes ever wonder why controlled radio all sounds the same? 
IT SELLS.


++++ Pyromania++++
www.fucktheriaa.cjb.net

Start Your Warez group today and tell these greedy corperate fuckers to STFU 
and just make the music.

