I made this file to express how much I hate muslims, or my personal favorite name to call them, desert niggers. 

1.	For one thing, look at all your terrorists and hijacker cocksuckers. The huge vast majority of them are muslim.
2.	It doesn't matter what country I live in, but all muslim asshole cocksucking bitch fuckers hate the western world. You know what I have to say about that? Lick my balls and wipe my ass! 
3.	The motherfuckers are just jealous because their shitty third world country is too poor to do anything. HAHA!! We are driving around in Jaguars, Mercedes's and other nice cars, even if they aren't necessarily a luxury car. We have the best economy in the fucking world, and McDonalds's and malls, and professional sports teams, and movie theaters that show movies with sex scenes, which would make a fucking muslim shit a brick even if they saw a woman's leg. The towel clingers all need to lay off the Western bashing and shove their words up their anuses.
4.	The muslim fuckers all beat women, and shun tourists, harbor terrorists, make weapons of mass destruction, and then have the nerve to tell the western world how to run our country. They need to shove a thorn bush up their cocks and pussies. I should take a wire grinding brush in a drill and just run it up and down their little organs. Make the shitlickers masturbate on the roughest sandpaper that exists.

Someone should send some gang members and other hitmen and go over to middle eastern countries like Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Qatar, Oman, Kuwait, Iraq, Jordan, Turkey, Syria, and all the other shitty countries over there, and go around and shoot muslims and all those bitch fuckers and show the desert niggers what is up on their own turf. That is how the shit will go down.

Fuck any country or any bitch who tries to protect muslims, because muslims try to protect terrorists, and other motherfuckers. For one thing, you have to be better than someone to dish it out on them. And to make it worse, muslim maggots like Osama bin Laden have openly demonstrated that they think they are better than us. This is where the shit goes down. That is beyond comprehension. What the fucking hell do these shiteaters think they got on us? The whole motherfucking middle eastern region needs to be nuked until you can see a big fucking crater from space. Any punk ass bitch who tries to stop it should be put on a ship and sent straight toward the sun. I'm sick of these scurvy ass desert niggers bashing and slamming on the west. Well like I say, When shit comes around, shit goes around. Scurvy ass scraggly bearded bastards. 2 legged rats. Shit people. I couldn't give a contaminated sewer rat's kidney if they don't like us. They can shove it up their ass out their mouth.

I am going to quote Mack 10 from Westside Connection:

"If you live on the west side of your town, make them other motherfuckers bow down!"

In this case, replace 'your town' with 'the world' and I think this would be very appropriate. 

All muslims who aren't doing everything they can fucking possibly do to kill muslim terrorists should and need to die brutal and terrible deaths. And as for any Islamic militant, everything I say here is the way it should be. There can be no neutral ground. If you don't totally agree with every syllable I have typed here, or are a supporter of muslims, or aren't doing everything you can possibly do to brutally kill islamic terrorists, then you are one of them, and need to have a hot wire brush shoved up your anus and rectum while having your internal organs doused with gasoline and being sawed off. I hate with all my might muslims who diss on the western world. I would love to see every muslim who hates or has something against us brutally massacred and I would laugh my ass off my whole life at those pitiful desert rodents who just got power owned. 

In case a dumbass mentally retarded person is trying to read this and doesn't understand my thesis, it is: Fuck all Muslims!!

So, in conclusion, I hope with all my might that every muslim who has something against the western world will go to hell and suck satan's cock while rotting in his shadow. If not, I will be forced to do everything possible to make sure that a new Hitler is risen to power with one and only one goal: To brutally massacre every muslim who has something against the western world. And not only that, but to piss on the body and feed the body to a pit of rats and disease, and other scum that finds haven in that region of filth, in hopes that their forsaken soul will find nothing but eternal torment and torture too extreme to describe with words. That's why I made up my own language to express what cannot be expressed with normal words.

'Hivit nobine'

You will only understand the meaning of this once you have eradicated the world of anti-Western world Muslim shit.

I implore every creature who reads this to finish reading it, agree with me, stop what you are doing, then go out and wreak havoc and cause harm to everything associated with Islam, muslims, and middle eastern shit, including the lepers themselves, the desert nigger pestilence, muslims. You will succeed only when they regret not only their very existence, but also their nation, themselves, their past, present and future, and everything that is, of or about them. Hell, they are so poor, you may even get them to sell their soul to you after you completely ruin everything about them.

Thanks for reading, and I hope you weren't a muslim, because if you were, I hate your very composition. I will write more text documents on things I hate, because trust me, there are just way too many fucked up things in this world besides just muslim shit. And if I were given power, I would make sure my prophecies come true, for the well being and better interest of the universe, time and space.

-The leader of a better world, The Great VA, 

by Mantis