THE HANDBOOK OF ASSASSINATION
           v1.0
     11. October 2002
        by Acidous





01. Disclaimer
--------------
Acidous take no responcibility for what actions this handbook
or any of the content of it may cause. Acidous will not take
the blame for anything you do after reading this handbook.
Everything you do is done by yourself, and can not be
forced upon Acidous or any other individual but yourself.
Be aware of that Acidous do NOT encourage to such actions
which is dealt with in this book.
And yes, it really is written assassin(check your vocabulary).


02. Assassins  Equipment
------------------------
Of course the assassinator need equipment. An assassination
is not to be performed with purely raw strength and
brutality. You are supposed to stay in the shadows,
where no one can see you. A good assassin will never be
seen, only heard of in the aftermath.
But anyway, here's the equipment you will need the most.

Sniper-rifle
 A sniper rifle is the number one weapon of the professional
 assassin. It allows you to take out target at great
 distances, something which gives you time to get away
 before guards, security, etc. arrives.
 The drawback of the sniper-rifle is that it is not good
 for assassinating target which are inside a structure or
 vehicle of any kind.

Piano-wire
 This is prima for sneak-up attacks. You sneak up behind
 the target, swiftly put it over his head and pull back
 really hard. It will cut his artery and his breathing 
 pipe.

Silenced Pistol
 The silenced pistol is good for low range assassinations.
 But it has limitations concerning range and accuracy,
 which is one of the reasons I choose the sniper-rifle
 unless I am forced to use the pistol.

Ninja Sword
 For close-quarters combat. The ninja sword is pretty
 much unmatched within close-quarters combat. It's
 incredible sharpness and lightness makes it the
 perfect weapon for taking out an opponent in
 non-projectile combat.

Camouflage
 Using the right camouflage is very important. One of your
 objectives is to avoid being detected. That is the reason
 you must use camouflage.



03. Making Some Equipment
-------------------------
Of course, the assassins equipment isn't very easy to make,
due to the high quality you will need to perform a clean
assassination. But there are some items you may create
yourself.

Piano-Wire
 This is the weapon which is easiest to creat yourself.
 What you need are 1 piece of piano-wire and 2 handles.
 Fit each end of the piano-wire to each handle.
 You now have yourself a piano-wire which will not
 hurt you when you use it.



04. Assassins Training
----------------------
If you are not willing to train hard and long to become an
assassin, then I suggest you quit now. You can never
become a good assassin without training.

Building Muscles
 Do push-ups, a lot of them. This will strengthen your arms
  and make you much more capable of defending yourself
  in a crisis situation.
 Start running/jogging to make your legs stronger.
  In a getaway situation, you might need to run fast
  and over a longer distance.
 Do sit-ups to strengthen your stomach. If hit in the
  stomach and your washboard is properly built up,
  then the attacker will get more hurt than you.
 Never overdo the training. You must not look like a
  giant monster. The trick is to be both strong and
  slim at the same time.
 Practise in moving swift and soundless. The more sound
  you make, the bigger is the chance for you to be detected.
 
Martial Arts
 You should learn at least the basics of one martial art.
 Karate is not one of the martial arts you need to learn
 at first. Start in the direction of Taekwondo, which
 is much better for defending yourself than Karate.
 Try to only move on to the next martial art if you feel
 that you master the one you are doing enough to take on
 a person twice your size.

Picking Locks
 Practice picking the locks at your home. Start with easy
 ones, then move on to the harder locks. Read manuals
 on lock picking.

Electronics & Alarms
 Study electronics, find out how different alarms work
 and how you can bypass, reprogram or destroy them.
 Also study how you can make other electronical items
 to go mad.

Weapons Handling
 You must learn how to use your weapons the best way.
 Train in the ways of a ninja with the sword. Train
 target practice on both still and moving targets with
 both the gun and the sniper-rifle. Never hesitate on
 how to use your weapon, your life may be at stake.



05. The Planning
----------------
Always plan your assasination well. If you do not plan
it, the more likely is it that you will fail.

 * Get maps/blueprints over the area you are going into.
 * Check out possible positions you may take.
 * Check the guarding and when they change guards.
 * ALWAYS check for cameras.
 * Always plan at least two(2) escape routes.

Try to always plan a position so that you may use your
sniper-rifle with a silencer. Of course you don't have
to use a silencer, but it makes it harder for the guards
and security to discover you.



06. The Assassination
---------------------
The assassination in itself could be over in a matter
of minutes, or it could be for hours. You need to find
the right time, so that you get a perfectly clear shot.
You should always aim either for the heart or head,
both of these are deadly kills. This is were the weapons
training come in. You only have one(1) chance of taking
your target out. When using the sniper-rifle, fire one
deadly shot, then pull out. You must never give yourself
the time to reload and fire a new shot, it will only reveal
your position, and you will get caught. That is also the
rule for every other weapon you may use.
So, the rules that you MUST follow are:

 * Aim only for one-shot deadly spots.
 * Never fire more than one shot.
 * Never shot the guards/security.
 * Always wear camouflage.
 * Always know what to do, never hesitate.

These rules are the GROUND rules, the rules you must follow.
If you do not follow these rules, then the possibility for
you to get caught doubles for every mistake you do.
Fire one(1) shot and there is a 15% chance for them spotting
you, fire two(2) shots and theres a 67% chance for them to
spot you, fire three(3) shots and theres a 91% chance for them
to spot you. Always be short and work fast, otherwise you might
be the victim too.



07. Various Ways To Assassinate
-------------------------------
There are many different ways for you to assassinate your target.
There are never only one(1) way to do it.

Sniping
 Sniping is the far most safe way to assassinate someone.
 You lie on a roof-top or the like and take out the person
 you wish to/get paid to assassinate.

Car-Bomb
 The car bomb makes it much easier for people to track you down.
 Peoples eyes are everywhere, and if their eyes arent, then theres
 cameras. Someone could have seen you rig your targets car and they
 could perhaps also give a positive ID on you.

Poison
 This one is also rather risky. You slip some poison into their food.
 You could pretend to be a waiter og a chef when putting it in. But
 there is a possibility you might put it in someone elses food and 
 kill them instead, something which is not very good. You should
 also use a poison which is hard to discover from the blood, or
 one which selfdestructs after killing the victim.



11. Word From The Author
------------------------
This handbook was written purely for educational purposes, and is not
intended for readers below the age of 18.
But after all, I don't care how old the readers are, and that is because
this book is put on the internet, and I do not care wether you read it
or not. IF the instructions in this book is followed, it may cause
in the serious fellony of making you an professional assassin, if you are 
dedicated enough that is, and it also may cause you to make alot of 
money, but there of course is the risk of getting caught or killed. 
Remember the old saying: "There is always someone better".
Feel free to send me an e-mail if you have something which you think
should be added to the next release of the handbook, or if you
just want to say Hi.

 -Acidous (acidous_@hotmail.com)
  11.10.02 (11. October. 2002)