	   - How to avoid the police in the UK -


    A lot of this is just common knowledge, and if you've had enough scrapes 
with the cops to know them like the back of your hand, then this file aint 4 
u.

The police in the UK are not really as clever as they may think they are. I 
think about 90% or so of convictions come from confessions so that should 
give you a little picture of how they really do convict people. Some 
interrogation sessions at the interview room are so intense that confessing 
all is the only option of an easy escape you have. Some cops give you the 
polite helpful interrogation. This is where they tell you that they already 
know you did what you are supposed to have, or your 
boyfriend/girlfriend/best friend has stitched you up and if you confess then 
they will go easy on you.

  THIS IS BOLLOCKS!

  While an early confession can lighten your conviction, it may also be 
digging your own grave. This is something you have to think about.

If you dont want to get as far as the interrogation room you have to know 
what you are doing.

1) If you intend to go out and about getting up to no good, know where you 
are. Before you do go out know your teretory. Check out alleys and lanes, 
find shortcuts, know quick escapes.  A police car can not chase you through 
a narrow alley, i dont give a fuck how fast they are.

2) Most if not all police vehicles are diesels. This just means that the 
engine sounds rougher and louder. Know the difference between petrol and 
diesel cars. Also know what type of vehicles the police use and always keep 
a look out for them.

3) Many people go out on night sprees. This is expected and if you do get 
caught and cant explain what u are doing carrying that big motherfucking 
screwdriver or whatever then u r in deep shit. If u are a night person, i 
reccommend wearing two sets of clothing. Firstly wear something you would 
wear everyday, like jeans and your favourate rugby shirt or something. On 
top of that wear something dark. If you do get seen you can change clothes 
quickly. It is also a good idea to get yourself a secret place to stash your 
outer clothing and tools or whatever.

4) If you are with someone it would help if he is a good friend or someone 
you trust. This can sometimes mean the difference between wanted and caught. 
I once did a job with someone i hardly knew and i ended up doing a stretch 
for him. Unless you trust him, tell him to fuck off.

5) No matter how early, late, light or dark there are almost definately 
going to be people still awake. They may be out for a walk, or taking a 
drive to tescos for a snack, or even just watching you from their bedroom 
window. Witnesses can be dangerous to people on "missions" this means you 
cant take chances. Dont wear distinctive clothing, if you got a distinctive 
hair colour or cut, wear a hat (you should wear a hat anyway coz dna testing 
is proving more and more popular.) If you have a funny walk, change it or 
add a limp or something. JUST DONT BE DIFFERENT!

There are hundreds of ways to avoid that unwanted visit from CID and cops, 
ive just listed a few. We all got brains, and if u dont wanna get caught 
then use the fuckers.

	Look out for more files coming soon from...


				......TikTaq
