Building a Beige Box (Simplified)
By, Akurei
Friday, August 11, 2000




I.	About

II.	Building A Beige Box With A Normal Phone

III.	Building A Beige Box With A Cordless Phone

IV.	Using Your Beige Box

V.	Resources




I.	About


I am making this text because a friend of mine (AkiraMan2501) asked me
"How do you make biege boxes?".  I figured, if I am going to explain
it to him, why not write it in a text and spread the word around.
Contrary to popular beleif, beige boxes are very easy to build.
Beige boxes are one of the phreakers favorite tool.  If you are not
familiar with what a phreaker is, then read my text called "Beginner's
Guide to Phreaking", then come back to this text.  A Beige box gives a
person access to another person's phone line through a network interface
box (the gray box on the side of most people's houses).  With access to
their phone line, you can do a number of things, from creating large
tele-conferences, to calling long distance for free... or maybe you
just want to "spy" on your next door neighbor.  Whatever the reason
is, beige boxes are very useful.




II.	Building A Beige Box With A Normal Phone


You must buy the following parts from a hardware store, maybe even
a local radioshack...

	1.  Two Alligator Clips with the wire attatched (Green and Red)
	2.  A modular jack
	3.  A telephone


On the modular jack back of the modular jack, there will be two colors,
red and green.  Take your red alligator clip, and attatch it to the
red terminal of the modular jack.  Do the same with the green alligator
clip (except on the green terminal of course).  Now, plug the phone line
into the modular jack, (YOUR DONE! EASY HUH?!)




III.	Building A Beige Box With A Cordless Phone


This is basically the same as above, although, with a cordless phone,
it is much easier to conseal your cause when beige boxing off of someone
elses telephone.


	1.  Two Alligator Clips with the wire attatched (Green and Red)
	2.  A modular jack
	3.  A cordless telephone (The higher the voltage, the better)
	4.  A battery you can plug your cordless phone into

Same thing, except, plug the cordless phone into the battery (cordless
phones need a power source to run)...



IV.	Using Your Beige Box


As everything else in the text, using your beige box is very simple.
The only hard part is aquiring the right tool to open the Network
Interface Box.  I have found a tool in a Radio Shack electronics
toolset.  I don't know where you will get your's, but you deffinately
need one.  Once you get the network interface box (aka gray box)
opened, you must clip the green alligator clip onto the green
terminal inside of the gray box.  And the red clip on the red terminal.
Then, pick up the phone, and you should have a dial tone.  If you do not,
either read this text again and figure out what you did wrong, or check
to see if the clips in the gray box are touching each other, if they
are touching, just unattatch them and you should get a dial tone.



V.	Resources


http://www.inforeading.com	Very good site for texts.

http://www.akur.net		My site, which has alot of
				information on phreaking in the
				texts section.

http://mystik.twoteeth.net	Mystik's site.

http://www.dugnet.net		Dugnet irc server's site.

http://www.phonelosers.org	Damned good prank calls.  =P

http://www.phonebashing.com	Funny guys running around in cell
				phone suits, stealing cell phones
				and breaking them.

http://www.techfreakz.com	Some pretty good information on
				scams and phreaking.

http://www.attrition.org	Very good information on
				hacking/phreaking etc.






You can contact me on irc on the server irc.dugnet.net in the
channels #phreaking, #chatzone, #rsh and #coders or on efnet in
channels #inforeading and #geekout. You can email me at Akurei@wuli.nu.
Thanks for reading my text on phreaking, I hope you have learned
something from it.  I may make more texts on other topics if I have time.
