THE MOSQUITO THAT "BIT" BILL GATES
(A Techno Satire)

BY J.KARTHIK( Bangalore, India )

 
 ...  0300 Hours  
 ...  Outside Bill Gate’s residence (The Trash can, that is!)

 	  My name is MS, the MoSquito. What I am about to narrate might be quite absurd but it will be clear, after you have Xperienced what I had gone through.
 
            Well, my story starts in a small puddle of stagnant water (my birth place) left after washing Bill’s brand new BMW. Since then, I haven’t seen my parents. The game called ‘Survival of the fittest’ (just like those dotcom companies) started for me from day one. No sooner had I learnt to fly I was hunting for my first byte (bite). Here I was in this place with funny red beams (Laser Beams) which shrieked every time I touched it. I sited (sighted) some humans (security personnel) running around in suspicion and something inside me told that I should plan my first attack.

             I flew inside this large WINDOW and realized that a string of 0’s and 1’s were making a lot of noise. I interrogated Mr. and Mrs. Zerone (who were traveling in a packet) about the commotion. They refused to talk due to some protocol business. I (w)hacked them to get the information. They were screaming, “The dots are coming! God save the network”. I thought the dot was another insect like me. Confused, I sat on an animal which resembled a mouse and lost in thought I was reminded about my lost parents. Suddenly I heard a voice “Hey you there. What is your e-business around here?” That guy was enjoying his cup of JAVA.
               
               I replied “Sir, I am looking for my first byte and am pretty concerned about my lost parents.” The guy replied “I am sure I can help you. My name is SPIDER and I work inside the search engines. I can google (search) anything you like.” 
“Well, Then tell my coordinates”

“You are in the Hub of a guy named Bill Gates. The nearest Play Station is 2 kms from here. Connect to me whenever you want while I search your parent’s records on my Web. And beware of the DOTS, they are crowding my Web daily.” 
        
        
    
       Hearing Spider’s advice, I got a little daunted by the DOTS. Then I continued my journey into the hub. I got routed into a room full of hunch backed humans who were playing with an animal (mouse), fiddling with buildings of various shapes and sizes (keyboard) and their faces lit up by a bluish glow (screen). I took rest on a huge box and a symbol ‘X’ was printed on it. God knows why. 

	Suddenly I got an eerie feeling that somebody was tracking me. The DOTS (.org, mil, .gov, .edu !! all of 'em!! ) had arrived and were chasing me to make me work in their web. I quickly hopped on a Trojan  horse, which was passing by, and hid inside a layer behind the packets. I got a feeling that I was inside a bedroom .A guy with spectacles , pretty geeky ,was reading a book (‘A guide to the Weird Wild Web’). The guy was inside a MOSQUITO.NET resting under Windows platform in a large dome named Visual Studio. Suddenly I got connected to my friend the SPIDER and he informed me that my parents got WAPed (killed) by a guy named Bill Gates.

      The timing was superb. I charged my speed to 128 kbps and was traveling straight at the guy. I got through the security holes of the MOSQUITO.NET with the help of my friend, the BUG, who proudly said, “As long as Windows exist, I exist”.(Ahem !!)

	 Meanwhile I targeted his body and bit him. The guy shrieked. Another person (Paul Allen) who was quite bald came to his rescue. He drew his Killer App to WAP me. But I was quickly escorted out of the platform by Cyrus the Virus (said he was from Philippines). He said “Return 0” (Don’t come back). I thanked him and in return, he said “I Love You”. Still  got no idea about his remark.
                   
       It has been two weeks since that terrible experience and here I am sitting beside a recycle bin reading used e-paper. The headlines were “BILL GATES GOT BUGGED AGAIN. SECURITY HOLES IN .NET TIGHTENED”. Another section read “I LOVE YOU VIRUS STRIKES BACK”. Hmm, Now where did I hear that sentence....

	
								

 


