
all i have to say is fit this on your pages by writing on college ruled paper and writing big... you might also have to change the bit about you living in monterey ;| <n3t>

Title:  Cannery Row
Author: John Stienbeck
Mark:   A

Page 1 (Plot & Theme):

  Cannery Row by John Steinbeck is set on a street in Monterey, California called Cannery Row. It's a fairly poor area. Mack is a poor but kind-hearted man who lives with some of his friends in an abandoned warehouse. He and his friends want to do something nice for Doc, a marine biologist who everybody likes. Yet, when they do this, it usually ends up going wrong. The story concentrates more on a wide variety of characters rather than the plot.

  The theme of the book is about society, and how they depend on one another for both physical and emotional survival. The tone of the novel is somewhat depressing, moderately giving account to death.

Page 2 (Charactors):

  Lee Chong is the owner of the general store in Cannery Row. The store had everything a man needed to live and be happy. Lee Chong is round faced and courteous Chinese man who speaks stately English without ever using the letter R. Everyone in Cannery Row has unpaid bills with him, but he doesn't push them to pay.

  Mack is the leader of a group of men which includes Hazel, Eddie, Hugie, and Jones. He and his friends live in the Palace Flophouse and Grill, a building owned by Lee Chong. Mack is a very kind man in his fourties, but whenever he tries to do something nice for somebody, something usualy ends up going wrong.

  Doc is a marine biologist, and the proprietor of the Western Biological Laboratory on Cannery Row. He is small, yet he is very fierce when he is angry. His only fear is of getting his head wet. Everyone who thinks of him, thinks next, "I really must do something nice for Doc."

Page 3 (Setting):

  This book takes place on a mile long street called Cannery Row in Monterey, California. The story also migrates from place to place around the area, such as Salinas and Carmel, but Cannery Row is the base setting. The year is around 1940, when people were still suffering from the Great Depression. Cannery Row is best known for today's Monterey Bay Aquarium, but during this time, it was a poor area. The writing didn't really paint a vivid picture in my mind about what the area actually looked like, but since I do in fact live in Monterey, I can attempt to picture what the area looked like then.

Page 4 (Liked/Disliked it because):

  I liked this story mostly because of the humour and how the charactors interacted with each other. Another reason is because of the setting. I like how I can invision the what Cannery Row area was like back in the 40's, compared to what it is now. One other unexpected reason is how there was not an actual plot, but instead many different stories all tying into one. The ending was great, and would even move an unemotional person. I would reccommend this to anyone because the story reflects on life and why people need friends to get through it.

