                          A guide how to become a crack     
                     and how to survive in the underground world
    .-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.
                                Author: tH3 m4n!4c
                       contact me at: dancho@schoolsucks.com

In this guide I want to explain you the difference between hacker and cracker.
I'll also talk about how to become a cracker and how to survive in the
underground world of the net. I do not take any responsibility about
anything happen after reading this guide. It's for educational purposes
only.I'm only telling you how to do it not to do it it's your decision. 
And don't forget:

                                 You never now who is watching you!!!!!!!
    -*--*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-**-*-*-*-*-

There have been many articles written (particularly on the Internet) about the
difference between hackers and crackers. In them, authors often attempt to 
correct public misconceptions. 

For many years, the American media has erroneously applied the word hacker
when it really means cracker. So the American public now believe that a hacker
is someone who breaks into computer systems. This is untrue and does a
disservice to some of our most talented hackers.

There are some traditional tests to determine the difference between hackers
and crackers. I provide these in order of their acceptance. First, I want
to offer the general definitions of each term. Those definitions are as
follows:

   A hacker is a person intensely interested in the arcane and recondite
  workings of any computer operating system. Most often, hackers are
  programmers. As such, hackers obtain advanced knowledge of operating
  systems and programming languages. They may know of holes within
  systems and the reasons for such holes. Hackers constantly seek further
  knowledge, freely share what they have discovered, and never, ever
  intentionally damage data.

 A cracker is a person who breaks into or otherwise violates the system
 integrity of remote machines, with malicious intent. Crackers, having gained
 unauthorized access, destroy vital data, deny legitimate users service, or
 basically cause problems for their targets. Crackers can easily be identified
 because their actions are malicious. 

I hope now you know what's the difference between hacker and cracker. Now I'll
talk about crackers.

The first thing I'll advice you to do is to start reading a lot. This is the 
best way of learning something but reading without practising is nothing.
Don't forget to practice cause you may read all the text files and guides
on the net but without practicing you'll know everything theatrical.
Go on the net and search for guides and text files. Every hacking web site
has a lot of them. Read everything learn about all operating systems.

You must know the net. Learn how is the net organized everything about the
net. Learn the net and it'll help you. Make friends not enemies. There're
a lot of people out there which will help you but they won't talk to
people saying things like "how can I hack ICQ" or "learn me to hack please".
These are stupid questions. Always be individual cause if you're lucky you'll
find someone to tell you and learn you but after that you'll depend on
this man you'll ask him or her for everything. No this is not right. Be
individual learn at your own. If you know something don't keep it for you.
SHARE IT if everyone is not writing guides and telling the other's what he or
she has found what will be the net then nothing there'll be only some
people who rule everything and who know many things than the other people.
Learn things about the hackers and the crackers what they do why they do
it. Go to every hacking page you can find on all of them you'll find
something unique that will help you a lot. Learn what trojan horse is
learn about the viruses and the famous hacking groups. Talk to them ask
them for something but don't ask stupid questions. Start writing guides
and tell the world what you know. If you find any good friends make a group
but not lamers group make real group. Start helping the people punish the
intruders and teach those who don't know.  As I said make friends not
enemies. Don't say stupid things to the other people cause you never
know who is the person you're talking to. It can be a REAL GOOD cracker that 
will completely destroy you. Remember there's always someone who knows
more than you out there. So don't get destroyed.

Don't hack pages just for fun hack only when needed otherwise you may get 
caught and busted.

 Before starting to crack learn the main things what's web page what's IP 
telnet,ftp,www,e-mail everything possible. LEarn how they are working and
they you'll be able to find bugs in these things and you'll be able to
break in them. 

   One very important thing is to learn to program you may learn C++ or 
Visual Basic. You see on the net there're a lot of tools and programs. But
sometime you may need program that you can't find if you know how to
program you can create it and then send it over the net. Remember you must
be useful with something. There're a lot of pages on net explaining how t
o program. Everything you need is on the net. Go and take it.

 Now I'll tell you some other things. Trust noone. There're a lot of people 
destroying computers just for fun. They are the lamers. Stupid people who
wants to destroy you. Don't accept files from anyone. If the person who is
sending you is lamer he or she will send you a virus if the person is 
something more he or she will send a trojan horse and then destroy your 
computer. Don't talk about your cracking plans on the net cause you never
know who is watching you!!!!

















