The double op-divert, and more - By Captain B

By this point, most phreakers have probably at least heard about
op-diverting, if they don't already know how to do it. But, for a while, I
had wondered about the possiblity of doing a double op-divert. In which
case, you dial into a PBX (Private Branch eXchange), dial out to 1010 ATT
0, then dial a 10 digit number from there (Including toll free numbers).
Well, I can tell you for certain that at least one corporate voice mail
system allows for such a thing. It's the Altigen voice mail system. But,
unfortunately, you don't seem to run across these all that often. And, it
seems like It's not uncommon for this VM system to only have the ability
to dial out via the admin's voice mail box. Which, in my experience so
far, has always been at extension/voice mailbox number 500, with a
passcode of the same. To do the double op-divert, first log into the VM
box, hit # (pound) to start the dial out proceedure, then dial the outside
line access digit, (which is a 9) plus 1 and the 10 digit phone number.
And, in the case of the double op-divert, it goes like this: 9+ 1010 288
00. And, yes that's not a typo. The 1 after the 9 in this case is dropped.
(Otherwise, the PBX would recognize what you're dialing as being "911").
And, you have to dial 2 zeros after ATT (288) instead of the usual single
zero. Speaking of which, that double zero technique also works even when
you're just dialing straight through normally to AT&T and other "dial
around" carrier access codes on phone lines. (At least it works here for
me, but it could be different where you are). In fact, on COCOT payphones,
it can even help speed up the time you wait for the computer inside the
COCOT to start processing (or, should I say, re-dialing) all your 1010
Carrier Access Code-type calls. Although, there are some COCOTS that won't
accept 1010 numbers dialed in such a way, and it'll have you redial over
again. Also, from standard fare fortress Verizon and RBOC (Regional Bell
Operating Companies) payphones, hitting # (pound) after 1010 XXX 0 will
put the call through a bit faster as well. Well, at least this is a method
that works here where I am. But, I know full well that sometimes subtle
differences in phone switches, and other CO (Central Office) phone
equipment can change how things work from place to place. Including even
with 2 different COs in the same town sometimes. By the way, AT&T also has
a 2nd 1010 number many don't seem to know about or use as much as 1010 288
0. The second one is 1010 732 0. And, for a while at one point, AT&T also
had 1010 779 0. All work the same. Still yet one more way to access AT&T
is through 00. (As long as AT&T is the long distance provider for that
particular phone line). On payphones, the bottom instruction card will
show who handles long distance calls for that payphone. But, sometimes
this info Isn't accurate, or the bottom instruction card may be missing,
or defaced too badly to be able to read well enough. In which case, just
dial either 1-700-555-4141 or 1-700-555-1212 and, after a moment, you'll
hear who the long distance provider is for that given phone line. I've
tried this method on PBXs to try to find out who the long distance
provider was for their phone service. But, so far, I've yet to find a PBX
that recognizes 1-700 numbers as valid. But, I have found that if you get
the ANI passed by the PBX by dialing an ANAC (Automatic Number
Announcement Circuit, which will say back the number you're dialing from),
then use the VM system's PBX to dial the PBX's area code + 700-1212,
you'll hear who the local service provider is for them. Here's one ANAC
you can use: 1-866-My ANI is. By the way, I don't know if it would help
screw up ANI from being passed properly, but you could always use a PBX to
dial that company's own local or toll free number back again, log into
another voice mailbox on the same VM system, and dial out via the 2nd VM
box to whatever number you want to call. To dial into the company's
corporate voice mail again via their local number, simply dial the number
read back to you via an ANAC. That local number is the number "behind" the
toll free number, as It's said to be. Since, most toll free numbers are
nothing more than numbers that forward your call to some standard 10 digit
phone number somewhere. (Although, there are some "dedicated" toll free
numbers that aren't connected to any 10 digit phone number like that).
Getting back to the double-op divert method, you could also dial into 1010
ATT 0 or 1010 732 0 to perform an emergency interrupt if the person you're
calling doesn't have call waiting service, and just won't get off the
line. In which case, you have to talk to a live AT&T operator, and ask
them to place an emergency interrupt call for you. (Also known as
"Emergency interrupt with call completion"). They'll ask you for your
name. So, be ready with a fake name, if you'd rather the person you're
calling not know who you are. And, yes, there are special charges for them
to do emergency interrupt, so you may want to think twice about doing it,
since if the company checks their phone bills, they'll see the charges,
know something is up, and probably change either their toll free phone
number, local phone number, or perhaps even both. In which case, you won't
have that corporate voice mail's PBX to dial out on anymore. So, always
think about your actions, and the effect it may have before-hand. By the
way, don't forget that It's possible to do op-diverting via live
operators. But, if It's a toll free number you want them to place for you,
don't expect them to unless you say that you're visually impaired, and
need help dialing the call. Even then, I've found a number of telecom
compnies that just won't, or can't do it. The only exceptions I can think
of off-hand are Verizon operators (via 101 6963 0) certain local RBOC
operators, and Global Crossing. Global Crossing can be reached at 1010 211
0, which passes along an ANI of a disconnected number in the 505 (New
Mexico) area. Probably Global Crossing may have another 1010 number I'm
forgetting, or don't know about as well, since many telecom companies seem
to have at least more than one 1010 number. And, some have also been
setting up their carrier access numbers in the 101 5xxx and 101 6xxx
ranges. So, search around, if you like. And, as always, have phun, and use
your head as much as possible.

