DVD PACKAGING ANNOYANCES
written by: paranoidxe
email: paranoidtsi@hotmail.com



So you bought a DVD huh? Get it home only to discover one of the following
annoyances:

1. stickers on the paper parts, this is a problem mainly with the cheap
warner bros. DVDs, they get all over the casing you go to remove them and
the sticky shit remains on the DVD.

2. paper cases is an annoyance in itself, the damn things don't protect the
DVD worth a damn, plus the packaging is so flimsy the plastic siding doesn't
hold up very well at all.

3. "SECURITY DEVICE ENCLOSED", geez we get the freakin point there is a 
magnetic strip inside and you shouldn't shoplift. I understand having ONE
of these stickers, but 3 on each side of the casing is a little over the
top don't you think? Not to mention a pain in the ass to get off.

4. The clip-locks, this is the first thing I remove when I get a DVD with
these things on them. What is the point to hold the DVD in the case better?
If the case is plastic and it snaps shut it should hold the DVD just fine
we don't need any locks on the damn thing.

5. The DVD Holder plastic pieces broken, nothing more annoying that a DVD case
that can't even hold the DVD it was ment to. I generally like to take these
back and get a new DVD, as the side effect is commonly a scratched up DVD
before you even get your hands on it.

6. The DVD flopping around in the case act. This is particularly annoying and
sometimes it doesn't even grab you until you get out the door with your DVD,
this is where the DVD isn't even securely attached to the holder and it is
just banging around in the casing. Recently had my animatrix do this and it
had a nice scratch, fortunately didn't affect performance.

7. The DVD that just doesn't move! This is just the opposite of 6, you open
the package and attempt to move the DVD, and either a) the disc doesn't come
off or b) you break the DVD. The end result is either the broken DVD or you
have to break the holder to get the DVD out.

8. piss poor season dvd packaging. You know what I'm talking about the flimsy
paper DVD packaging when you fold it the DVDs just drop out and get scratched.
Not only is the case ineffective at protecting the disks it actually causes
more problems than it helps. The fold-up DVD packaging needs to go.