Written by Hathor
First used at Liquid Fire, in response to some very ignorant person I felt very sorry for. 





The way I see it...  you are born... at that moment, your world begins. You have effects on everything around you. Simply breathing creates live, not only in you, but in the trees and other plants, and you in essence become a source of life for everything around you. In some small way, you are feeding the planet. You give life to the trees and they recycle it and give life to the animals, which recycle that and give life to more trees, all using what you provided when you recycled the oxygen into carbon-dioxide. As we breathe live into the world, some of the organisms die, and the life you gave to them and that they used to survive as long as they did is recycled in the form of proteins and basically fertilizer. Their body feeds the earth which feeds the trees and bushes which provide food and oxygen, and you become part of everything around you. The world is part of you, and you are part of the world. It's all an extension of you. When you die, other organisms and life-forms carry on, and continue to live through the chemical energy you provided or helped create, but eventually those plants and animals die as well, but the stored chemical and heat energy they provided and helped create also lives on, in a sense, as a further extension of you. The plants and animals in the third generation of recycling also die, and are recycled, and so on and so forth, but eventually... when all things end, and there is no more life... our atmosphere decays, or we are destroyed by a meteor... no matter how long you sustained life through your actions and just existing, and no matter how many lives you touched, it all ends up as mulch, which at some point along the line all ends up as inanimate matter, decaying, and worthless.

Entropy is a harsh reality. Everything we did and said and everything and everyone we touched becomes rubble. It becomes inanimate trash, if even that. Life has no point when you look at the big picture. Nothing you say or do is permanent. I would say nothing is written in stone, but then, even stone isn’t permanent. 
If nothing lasts forever, not even the effects it has on its surroundings; if nothing is eternal, how can anything we do have a “point” or a “meaning”?

Most of you who read this probably think of this as a sort of... doom, or the harsh sentence of meaninglessness or worthlessness, but I think of it as freedom... absolute freedom. If nothing we say or do truly matters, then we are free to say and do anything we want. This is part of why the right to freedom of speech and freedom of thought and action are so important. People have a short time here, in the big picture, and even the effects they have don’t last forever, so I don’t see how anyone has the right to tell them what they can... or can not do, as long as it doesn’t encroach on someone else’s freedoms. 

I know most people don’t think like I do... Hell, most people call me weird for wanting to do a lot of the things I want to do, like take a boat out to a deserted island with nothing but a knife and the clothes on my back, and just live as long as I can, at complete peace with everything, and die happily, having fought for my life and freedom, being truly free. I know most people don’t think that way, but I believe mostly, people only don’t think that way because they’ve been conditioned to believe it’s wrong. They’ve been told and taught over and over again that the only way to be “free” is through legislation... laws... laws to protect “us”. That would be the universal “us who follow the rules, and think alike”, not the truer “us who are of the same flesh”. 

I think the fact that we are all inevitably eventually worthless is freedom, in the truest sense of the word. I believe that once someone recognizes that nothing matters here, they are free to be happy... Free to live their lives the way they wish to, and do what they want. If you want to eat a cheeseburger, but choose not to because of what your boyfriend or girlfriend will think of you, you aren’t free. If you go to church, but don’t know why, other than the fact that your parents go, you aren’t free. If you aren’t allowed to speak your mind for the fear that some people might not agree with you, or might believe something other than what you have to say, you aren’t free, and for every thought you conceal, every day you worship without reason, every burger you don’t eat, you are wasting yourself. You are wasting the one and only life YOU, yeah, you were given. You were the only one given your life. You life is not your friends’ it’s not your teachers’ it’s not your parents’, it’s yours! You are giving away pieces of yourself, for the sake of social acceptance, and for good grades, and for parental approval, but what’s it really all for? Why are you doing those things to yourself? What is it all leading up to? I’m here to tell you... entropy. That’s all you’ll ever become, and if you weren’t happy about the way you lived your life.... if you didn’t enjoy every god damned moment of it, you have thrown away a perfectly good existence on something even you didn’t care about in the end. 
If you follow the little “laws”, “rules”, and “guidelines” set by society, and refuse to speak your mind, and do as you please, because there’s an ogre of oppression we call legislation and social acceptance standing in your way, and you won’t fight it, then you’ve already lost. This isn’t just about government though. This is about your life. This is your entire existence. You only get one, and look how many years you’ve already wasted. Look how many burgers you wanted to eat, but didn’t. Look how many days you’ve wasted in prayer to something you never knew. Look how many thoughts you’ve already hidden away, and how many feelings you’ve ignored. You are wasting away. We all are. Even while writing this, I, myself am dying, but I die so that I can show you how to live. I know in the end it doesn’t matter, and if that were all there were to it, I wouldn’t be doing it, but it makes me happy just to know that my words MIGHT some day reach someone, and change their life. My words MIGHT some day help someone to see the world for what it is, and live the way they really want to live. Some day, someone might see these texts and my life will have been of value... to me.  

"One of the greatest delusions in the world is the hope that the evils in this world are to be cured by legislation." - Thomas Brackett Reed 



