Exploding Paste:

First of all, you need only two ingredients: Iodine crystals and Ammonium Hydroxide.
You can get the iodine at drug stores and pharmacies (you may have to sign for it). Even if you can get pure ammonium hydroxide, you probably don't want it - it's purity affects the strength of the explosive, and you don't want the result to be blowing the wall of your house off.
Very strong household ammonia water will do OK, but it must be clear - if it's cloudy, it won't work.

OK, now we're on to the making. 
It's a good idea to crush up the iodine crystals - this will make them react faster. 
Put two tablespoons of the crystals into a glass or pyrex container that will hold at least 500ml.. 
Now add about 100ml of the ammonium hydroxide. You should always add a little more than you need here - if you add too much, it won't affect the outcome, but if you add too little, it will be incomplete. 
You want to stir the mixture for about ten minutes. If all goes to plan, you should see some bubbles of Hydrogen being given off. When these bubbles stop, the reaction is over. 
Leave your mixture for about 5 minutes to make sure everything's completely done, and you should see some stuff at the bottom of your container. This is your paste, which can be separated by pouring the whole lot through filter paper. Don't worry about damaging your funnel - the liquid you're getting rid of is just water now. 
The paste should dry after about an hour, so if you want to keep it, store it with a little water (to keep it damp) in an airtight tin. 
Remember, if you store it too long, it will decompose! 
OK, that's it - have fun, and try not to break any laws! Yes! Is it not wonderful?! I am making not sense!
Apologies for that, but I am happy to be able to offer you some pictures at long last. And quite amusing ones at that, I think.
This is one I drew of myself being eaten by a giant, 10-storey-high cat. I should point out that the cat is a suction cat, which is how I can be in mid air.
Also, I look nothing like the rendering in the picture - It's just a charicature that's developed over time.


The first of these two following pictures was drawn by the one known as pie boy on my forums . It's of a man named brian trying to eat a giant jelly that's running away from him. But of course...
The second's by me... people who know me will understand it's significance... for everyone else, you'll just have to settle for knowing that it's a very amusing picture...
 



