                           Evading The RIAA by using a proxy
                                    by: MassExodus



Now we have all heard the stories of how much trouble groups like the RIAA and MPAA are causing 
theses days for the average p2p user. Using the feds to raid homes of downloaders of online files,
and imposing heavy fines. now while this has discouraged some people to stop stealing music on the
net, We the truly hardcore have devised ways to hide from the law, one of which I'm now gonna 
explainto you. 

These Groups use Internet spys to find your ip address and then they get your personal information from 
your Internet provider. Now when you connect your ip is visable to the person your downloading from. So 
instead of hoping that Agent Smith isn't on the other end of the computer your downloading that Ricky
martin mp3 from, were gonna use a proxy. 

What is a proxy you ask?. a proxy is a computer which you can connect to that lets you access things 
such as kazza or the Internet with some privacy(depending on the anonymity of the proxy)effectivly hiding 
your ip address. Now some proxies have been setup with privacy in mind and are anonymous but there are 
others that aren't, the one we want is the Anonymous.

Lets get to work. First we need to find a proxy that works. What you looking for is called a Socks5 Proxy 
so look on google. It will look like this when you find it EX: 66.32.45.78:1080 The first number is the ip
and the second number is the port. you'll need both. when you find it open Kazza. now in the Options menu
go to Firewall and click the box that says "use SOCKS5 proxy" and in the space labeled Hostname Type in the
ip address of the proxy you found. and in the space labeled port type in the port number. Click Apply. 

Almost there. after your done with the steps above Completely shut off kazza and then restart it. Now when it 
restarts it may take a few minutes to connect but this is normal. so don't worry unless its been like two mins 
and its still not connected this means it may not be working. but once it does connect you can do anything you 
want,. And Since your connected Through a proxy it will be alot harder for anyone to track you down. Now don't 
get me wrong its not impossible to be tracked down. your just safer this way.