HOW TO GET FREE STUFF WHEN MOVING TO ANOTHER COUNTRY
BY: DizzIE ©1999


  Ok so you are moving to Austria, well why not leave with some quality Amerikan items (that are made in Japan)? Here are some things you can get for free when you move to a different country, and how to get them for free.

1.	Free library books. There are lots of ways you can smuggle library books out of the library like pulling out the magnetic strip or tossing them out the window and then getting them…But there is a much simpler way. All you have to do is apply for a library card, get the card, then check out as many books as you want. Do this about one week before you move. 

2.	Free videos. Apply for a blockbuster membership or something like that. If they ask for an ID but you don't have one just go to your computer, choose a different language font, like Russian and just write away at the keyboard to make a bunch of nonsense, then just scan your picture next to it, print it out, lamenate it and show it to the friendly employee, pretend that you don's speak much English. Then just take as many videos as you want, pay the $2 and leave. So you just got yourself some brand new movies for only 2 bucks. Do this about 3 days before you leave. Another way you could get free videos without moving anywhere is when asked for your name and address give the name and address of that one kid who used to pour hot glue down your pants. The employee wont be able to check this information because your ID is in a different language, hehe. 

3.	Free furniture. You know all of those commercials you see on TV, the ones that say you can buy a mattress and pay no money down until the year 2000, or buy a couch and pay no money until 2003. Well just take advantage of that and go and get yourself some new furniture. You wont have to pay for it when you buy it (DUH!), and then when the free-time period is up and they send you the fee notice they will get it returned, while you can be the only one in Peru to have a nice big-ass leather couch.

4.	Free anything! Yup, there is a way you can get nearly anything you want for free. All you need is to sign up for one or 2 credit cards like visa or mastercard and when you get the card(s) buy as much shit as you can fit in your ass and then get the hell out of the country as soon as possible. Make sure you buy some false papers, like passports, ids, birth certificates, because el govermente will try to find you. So plan on laying low in Cuba or something. 

That's it for this phile look for more cuming soon to an underground web site near you, or you can email me at xcon0@yahoo.com. If you want you can even fax me at 1-559-663-4067
-----TOOTLES EVERYONE! 
-DIzzIE
