                      [How To Get Free Stuff]
                            [By Pepsi]
                        [6/10/01] [7:38 pm]
 This textfile is an incredibely easy way to get various thing's, for free.
     Note: This file is fairly long, but believe me, if your into getting
 free stuff, this file is worth the reading. Or just scroll through it, 
 and find what you need.
 
      Getting Free Stuff From Your Job
 This is really fairly easy,... 
 Well, this one really matter's where you work... If par-say, you work at
 Mcdonald's, your not going to have much to steal other then food.
 If you work at mcdonalds, try to get back where they "prepare"(microwave),
 the food. Get on the best side of everyone, so they don't suspect anything,
 and just ever so easily, take the food. Like, if say, you have a coat, 
 or something on, which you most likely can't, because you have to wear the 
 stupid ass mcdonalds(burger king, whatever)employee shirts, but if you do
 just turn your back to the camera, or whatever is watching whats happening
 ever so easily, and just grab the burger and put it in your coat. Not
 too many at a time, because they'll get suspicious. Also, what you can do,
 is when the food is coming your way, or whatever happens drop it to the ground.
 Make sure its wrapped but like push it off,. Make it look TOTALLY accidental,
 and dive down to pick it up, while apologizing, and slip it in your pocket.
 Maybe, keep another burger handy so it can look like thats the one that
 fell to the ground. Do this enough to have food for a while, but not TOO
 much, so that you gain suspicion. If you are behind the counter,...
 Well, there's not alot you can do, other then like put the money in your
 pocket, but this look's really bad, and can be easily seen by anyone else
 around you, and mean some actual police trouble. So, i'd avoid this.
 On to the drive through window, one way to well, mainly screw people over,
 is if your at the window where people order, screw up on what they ordered.
 "I want a cheeseburger, and fries, and a root beer", "Yes mam/sir, that'll be,
 (at least 1-5 dollars more then the real price"7.86", and if they argue,
 tell them rule's are rule's and thats what you see. Also, order them
 like some nugget's, a mountain dew, and some onion rings, or what ever the
 exact oppisite of their order is. Now, if you are on the end where you take
 money, this rules. Just take their money, and drop some of it on the ground, 
 or some place you can get too later. If they are some body you know, give
 them like 5 bucks more change then they are supposed to get. This can work
 both ways, like, if you have a friend that works at the fast food resturant,
 arrange this with him. Get him to give you more food then you ordered, or 
 more change then you actually are supposed to.

      Now, on to other jobs you may have.
 Suppose you work at like, office depot,...
 Well, there are many thing's you can steal here.
 Try to be some one who works in the back, like shipping and moving 
 various supplies, and products. Well, once back there, dress light.
 If you can, a shirt/coat with pockets. It would be ideal if the 
 pocket's are the size of what ever item you want to steal, but oh well.
 Now, on too the stealing. While filing, or stacking or doing what ever
 the fuck you do, take off the bar code on the item, so it wont set
 off the alarm. Once thats done shove it in your coat or whatever pocket,
 and cover it up. Hopefully you have a coat, so it is less obvious you
 have something,... Well, i'd suggest NOT taking anything else after
 that and walking around helping the people to the best of your ability,
 to make you look like the star employee. Once your shift is done,(this
 is optional)go up and buy an item, about the size(this isnt required,
 but it helps)of the item you stole. Now, take out your stolen item
 and act as if thats the item you bought. Say good-bye to everyone,
 and get the fuck out of their. Don't run, of course, just walk.
       Now on to other free shit...
 Free Food at school. Now, if you go to school still, check if your school
 has an free or reduced lunch programs, and if so, apply for it.
 Now, when you go to get lunch, pile your tray. Get the regular one thing,
 then fill up on everything else. Get a couple milks, and all the other various
 items they have. Now, tell them your number, so they know your reduced/free lunch,
 and go sit down... Ta da. Start putting shit in a bag, or coat pockets for later.
 Theres nothing they can do, because you "payed" for this, or whatever, and you
 have the right to do what ever you want with it. Do this every day, and you have
 food for a while... 
 Another one at school is, go to the library, and put like three or four magazines,
 or books into your folder, and walk out,... Of course, its going to beep, because
 you never checked the books out. Duh,. Well, when they look at you, look suprised.
 Now, be PAST the detector, and go, "Oh my god, sorry, i still had this with me, i
 apologize" and hand them the disliked book, and walk out with the other four or 
 how many ever you got,. Make sure they are covered up, so they cant be seen.
 Free magazines, :-D.
 Steal books from your classroom. Very easy, because most rooms have books you can 
 read during class, so take the one you like most, and start reading it. Well,
 now just tuck it in your binder when the period is over, leave, and put the book
 into your back pack. No one even notices, and you have a free book. I've done this
 a couple times, and now have three-four books i havent paid for in my posession.
 I enjoy my block class(the only class i do enjoy), so i may put them back when im
 done with them.. This is optional OF course.
 Steal other things from your class, like markers, paper, pencils, etc.
 I've done this before, and came away with an american flag, two highlighters,
 three permanent pens, and some over head cleaners. I still dont know what to do
 with them. I already burned the american flag, so i must just huff the markers(not-
 -really). Well, how i pulled this off, is being up front. This isnt required, but it
 helps. Scope out the items you like, and start seeing various ways you could take them
 un-detected... I sat exactly behind the over head projecter, and had access
 to a box of markers, highlighters and some erasers. Not that much, but some to pass 
 the time, and hey, maybe i might need them some time. Alright, now when the class has
 started, and the class is working on an assignment, and the teacher is away,
 casually walk over near the items you want, and start talking with some one.
 If the teacher asks you to sit down, tell him/her you finished your work, and handed it in.
 This mostly gets he/she away from you, and your chance arrives. Alright, now wait until
 the teacher, and most students are looking away from you, and snatch a marker, or whatever
 and casually put it in your pocket, keep talking, then sit down, acting like nothing 
 happened. Then put the shit in your binder, or bag, or whatever you have, which is away 
 from view. Now, repeat this with whatever item you need. Make sure EVERYONE who may snitch
 on you is looking away, and suspects nothing before trying this. Believe me, if you pull
 this off right, it works no matter what... I stole a novelty american flag, around 7-8 
 inches long, right from under the teachers nose, so this DOES work. 
 
 Getting free newspapers...
 There is a really easy, and reliable way to do this, and it only requires the ability to
 get up early in the morning. Alright, what you need to do, is get up around 4:30 in the morning
 and check to see when the "newspaper boy" comes by. Once you find this out, wake up about 10 minutes
 before that happens, and walk out in front of your house. Nod, and wave hello to any one up at 
 that god-awful
 hour, and shake off all suspicion. Now, find a house that has a newspaper, and no one is up at
 the house, or is watching you, and take the newspaper. Easy as that,... Do this to a few houses
 if you want a few extra newspapers, or some for friends or family. Do this as often as needed, but not
 enough to create suspicion among the neighbors.
 Getting some free magazines...
 Find a friend, or an enemy, it doesnt matter that has a subscription to the magazine that you enjoy.
 Now, find out john doe's full name, zip code, address, and phone number.
 Call up the selected magazine company, and ask for an adsress change, just tell them your address.
 If they ask for any other identification tell them the persons name, zip code, or whatever they need,
 and you end up getting the magazines, and they get the bill.
 Steal mail.
 I wouldn't really recommend this, because its a federal offense, and its also happened to me before,
 and the mail contained credit card numbers, bank statements, etc.
 Well, this is really easy to do... Just randomly go around your neighborhood,
 or some one elses late in the day, when everyones inside, or in the middle of the day,
 when most people are at work, or school. Check out each mail box, if it doesnt have a lock on it.,
 Check for mail that may include money, bank statements, or anything else that you could profit from,
 in anyway. Also, steal magazines or something that they have ordered... Also, check houses for fedex 
 deliveries... These can conceal many things that cost large sums of money... Just take them at leisure.
 Act as if they are yours... And walk away. Make sure the person/people, arent home, or if they are,
 make sure they are away from the front door. 

 This is the end of my textfile, and for those of you who read all of this file, to here, i thank you,
 and hope you enjoyed this file, and gain many free items because of this file. Im not telling you TO commit 
 these crimes... Well, if you want too, go for it. I don't give a shit about putting a disclaimer on my files, 
 because i dont give a shit. If someone who gets caught because of what is shown in this file, its their own
 fucking fault, and they should take it, not bitch and whine.,
                    If you'd like to reach me, i can be reached at...
 pepsi@aol-files.com
 pepsi@ircpepsi.cjb.net
 pepsi@marijuana.com
                    You'll have the best luck at "ircpepsi.cjb.net".
 Also, you can contact me on aol instant messanger on the names...
 Qzh, or Meph. Contact me with any feed back, rants, compliments, that you have.
                     Later...
     You better have enjoyed this file, because it took me nearly two and a half hours to write, ;x.
                          [Pepsi]
                    [6/10/0] [9:24 PM]

     