


		  Everything you need to know about shoplifting

							by: Joey Midoro

   Disclamer

     This textfile is for informational purposes only. I will not be
held responsible, legally or otherwise, for any actions taken as a
result of ideas developed from this textfile.

in short: If you fuck up, it's you fault, not mine

     Welcome to the complete guide of how to shoplift.  This has worked
great for me and many other people well I guess that before I tell you
some of the actual ways too shoplift I should tell you how to act while
... uh... working.

1. Don't do anything that will draw attention

2. try not to act to conspicuous

3. don't try too hard at not acting conspicuous. otherwise you end up lookin
	jsut plain cocky and draw attrntion

4. Don't spend a half an hour deciding where to put the stolen merchandise
	that should be done at home with something of the same general
	size

5. alway's wear something that will help you blend in.

6. **VERY IMPORTANAT** Never, NEVER run.

7. Never take anything that is in front of a huge mirror or camera.

8. Without drawing attention, always be on the lookout for cameras or
	staff. Any of the previous preperation or caution is useless
	if you are seen while taking something

well, that's pretty much of the precautionary measures you need to take. no 
here are some actual ways to get the things you want

1. if it's small enough to fit in your pocket, go ahead! just make sure that 
you
	don't have a big lump... protruding

2. try to wear baggy clothing. Your only limit is the extra room. just be 
careful
	of those corners

3. somethings may require taking it out of the box. I highly recommend that 
because
	it reduces the extra space needed.

4. extra bags are wonderful, the only problem is getting out with it. If 
possible,
	try to make it look empty so that if someone asks to see it, tell them you
	came to return something then hit the bag without hitting the merchandise.
	don't let it make any sound. this can be practiced at home.

5. purses are wonderful for the girls

6. Backdoors and store rooms are wonderful. just bewear of the staff who 
will
	more than likely be in the store room.

those are some pretty broad plans but more elaborate things have been done.

  	   if you have any questions or comments, please contact me

email                                  		       
thirdbeatrevolution@hotmail.com
yahoo instant messanger                                 gundanium_reality
AOL instant messanger                                   GundaniumReality
