::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
:Fucking SKs---------------------------------------------:
:--------------------------------------------------------:
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Most 'guides' and comments from Lochness wont help you much.

You cant just start 'hacking' either, you kinda have to stumble into
it. First define hacking. I dont know what the dictionary says but to
break it all down is to trial and error methods on action to
manipulate and or possibly escilate privelages to render a desired
request. In short terms make something do what you want.

Heres some basic things, you dont have to read the whole thing but
make sure  you have an idea of the methods before going wild with it.
This is some basic sql injection.

hxxp://www.securiteam.com/securityreviews/5DP0N1P76E.html

Pikeypete is absolutely correct. Google is your friend :)

The best thing you can do is read and not try to 'hack'. By doing this
you kinda just learn the lingo as you go along and will be able to
understand things more clearly without hesitation. If you read a
'guide' and call your self a hacker you will have more problems than
solutions.

Alot of this stuff is outdated but still very usefull.

hxxp://www.textfiles.com/hacking/

You can learn alot from that place. I'm not sure what languages you
know but some of the must knows I would have to say would be C, and
PHP. Just to start learn some basic html. Not many but some sites are
vuln to html injection but other than that there really is no use for
html when it comes to security related programming.

Downloading trojans and infecting people is not hacking, let you know
that rite now. Very usefull but does not make you a hacker. If you are
really into OS(operating system) sec. you should check out
chasenet.org and join there forums. Dont be an idiot on your intro,
you will be banned on the spot.

I find tizag the best place to learn php, perl, and MySQL.
Took me about a hour or so to learn php so I think you will do just fine.

hxxp://www.tizag.com/phpT/

Perl is another great language and is actually better than php. The
only problem with perl is there are to many variants in the syntax but
once you get a hold of things perls on your side. Perl is good for
'automation' and connections unlike php. Perl can be used for web or
system as well this is what makes perl better than php.

hxxp://www.tizag.com/perlT/

Most web servers are UNIX based so you probably want to get a free
host that offers ssh access or download vmware and install a unix
distro. You will find linux easier to use than bsd but over all
free/open bsd is the best. Not much difference in Sun systems but you
will notice the difference.

The best way to learn is not to be intimidated and dont be 'scared'.
If you screw something up and you get a error type the error just how
it is on your monitor into google and read dont panic.

Before you go and try out your 'skills' read up on cloacking and anonymity.
Once you learn perl you can make proxy chains if you are not able to
tunnel through ssh or find a high up proxy.

People think there safe because they put on a proxy but if the feds
were to go to the location of the box your screwed.

Gateway proxys are very usefull though.
say your ip is 1.1.1.1 and the proxy you have on is 2.2.2.2 but when
you use a web service to identify your ip the ip it displays would be
2.1.5.4.  I dont think I have to explain any more.

hxxp://www.digitalcybersoft.com/ProxyList/fresh-proxy-list.shtml

-Ruyn

Just because you speak leet does not make you any better or smarter hacker

!IDIOT!
