----------------------------------------------------------------
This is the result of watching people for three hours and then
answering the question: are we were happy?

Feel free to plagiarize and what not.
----------------------------------------------------------------



	The world is full of many different emotions: happiness,
sadness, anger, hate, hurt, love, rage, envy, et cetera. People
experience all these different emotions throughout their life, but
humans are not, and cannot be completely happy, especially for a
long period of time. Many plagues affect people, yet ultimately it
is people, the affected and the affector, who are the source of
unhappiness.

	One of the things that one would notice after watching people
for some time is that they are very concerned with their appearance.
These are people who don't and can't accept themselves and try to
change themselves by use of make-up. This is a result of being unhappy
. Many people live the consumer life, to make money then to spend it
on useless crap. Some buy expensive clothes to try and make their
appearance desirable to others. Sometimes people do this to make
themselves look important, maybe because they suffer from low
self-esteem. They may do it to impress others. People will change
appearance to fit the standards of other people, so they can fit in.
They can't be happy if they're constantly worrying about all this
meaningless shit. This is considered meaningless, since the main goal
in life should be happiness and cheerfulness; life is so short
anyways. This method of materialistic values may make some people
happy, but it can't be denied that it is a false happiness. People
can become victims of jealousy and thus be unhappy once again and strive to 
be better then the origin of their distress. Humans are easily fooled.

	People can be paranoid. They can be naturally suspicious of
the motives of others. Thus they close themselves off to newcomers
automatically. They seem shy, untrusting to save themselves from being
screwed over. Perhaps they've been backstabbed before, or a friend
has suffered a horrible experience. Or they fear the stories given by
the news, which speaks of rape, murder, and robberies. People don't
want to take part in that and therefore they don't trust a smile
thrown by a stranger, not matter how good that stranger's intentions
could be. This keeps people from being happy, this constant state of
paranoia. They can't trust. This lack of trust makes people seem weak
and vulnerable. It is a safety precaution, but the emotions that it
causes people to experience keeps them from being happy as they are
two opposite emotions. They are opposite, in the sense that, to be
cautious you can be trusting, but to be happy you should be able to
freely trust.

	People suffer from several other insecurities, yet some have
the habit of dragging their insecurities onto others. This causes more
people to become unhappy. In essence, it is other people who create
unhappiness. Other people have the ability to induce rage, hate,
sadness, jealousy, pain, fear, et cetera. This can spread to others
as well. The only cure is time and even though things get better,
even for a small period of time, it all gets shot to Hell, once again.
It's an endless cycle. Everyone can't be happy with other people
spreading their emotions like a fountain of disease, destroying more
happy moods. It's all the people and always the people.

	Emotions are inescapable. They are like this because they
are natural. Having emotion is a natural function. One can deny an
emotion, but that still doesn't mean they don't have that feeling.
It is natural for people to be happy at one moment, sad another. If
there was no sadness or hurt, one could never fully experience and
praise the glory of being happy. One could never tell the difference
between one and the other without having experienced an opposite
emotion. It's absurd to strive to be absolutely happy as that will
never work out. One usually needs another person to gain happiness
and well, perhaps that one person who gives you such joy were to die.
That one person would then feel another emotion such as sadness for
the loss of a good friend. It goes on and on. It's a plan that works
out perfectly though. One should not just let the worst get a hold of
them. Of course, one should strive to be happy at all times. But let
the bad times flow and accept it.

	There is no way for people to be completely happy twenty-four
hours a day, seven days a week. People are there to both keep one from
happiness and to give happiness. There's always something there that
makes a happy moment change, you can't escape it, that's how life
works.

