      this  file  is  devoted on people who suck and boards that suck too. and
      now here's the list. Ok if you don't like coarse  words  then  hit  Ctrl
      Break  or  Ctrl  C. Now. I take no responsibility for the information in
      this file if you don't like it and you  read  it  anyways  then  your  a
      Zealot and you should be shot.







































      Hit Ctrl break or Ctrl C now! last chance








































































































































































      1.  Sadam  Husane  (I.E.  the  fucker in Iraq) This guy should have been
                         killed but I think Dan Quayle  licked  george  bushes
                         balls and convinced him not to kill sadam.


      2.  Denny Davis (I.E. The Master, Mommies Boy, Grimis, Dick Sucker) both
                       Sysop of his board and Co-Sysop of it. He sucks cuz  he
                       can't  run  the  same BBS type for more than 3 weeks. Or
                       until his users get a good U/D ratio  like  20:0  then
                       gets  bitchy when a 2400 baud user Downloads a file but
                       he won't kick them off during a upload, but  will  on  a
                       download.  he  sucks cuz he doesn't work and he gets all
                       these  expensive  toys  Hst modem,  386,  and  he  does
                       nothing  my  sources  tell  me  he doesn't have a job, I
                       believe them who would hire a FAT SWEATING PIG LIKE him.
                       Maybe  the  FCC.  (See  FCC.) Plus he gave away my Star
                       Flight I,II, my 3.5 colonel's bequest and silpheed. Fuck
                       you for that Denny Grimis Davis.


      3. Brad berlam(SP? Who cares) (I.E. the sysop on Lands end. Another suck
                                     dick asshole.  He  sucks  cuz  he's  just
                                     there.  and  suck  his  share of dicks on
                                     main st. plus he likes to ignore  peoples
                                     existence.   I.E.  the  arthur  of  this
                                     file. and who knows else.

      4. Dan Quayle (I.E. vice president of the United  states.)  This  fucker
                    sucks  cuz  he's  just waiting for George Bush to die. Cuz
                    the second george bush dies he'll be  president  and  then
                    we'll be fucked and so will the Kuwaities. Sadam will roll
                    into Kuwait again. and this fuck won't do shit about it.


      5. FCC (I.E. The  federal  communication  commission.)  These  are  fat
             sweaty  pigs  that  sit on there ASS's doing nothing but telling
             what radio, TV and Ham-ops what to do and say, What they can and
             can't do. We cant say Fuck on the TV cuz some  Fucking  christian
             Fuckhead  will bitch his/her heart out. saying it's a sin da dat
             dah dah.. Well fuck them hey i don't fucking like the Idea  every
             day some fuckhead is on a TV channel begging for money in the name
             of  god,  Really they  just want the money so they can wet there
             Wicks in some hookers cunt. These fat sweaty FCC  assholes don't
             do  nothing  about  these  god damn (you heard me you fuckheaded
             christian bastard) fuck head won't step in and take  these shows
             off  the  air , PTL, and the other damn fucking christian church
             stations off. Now we all know the first satanic church that come
             on the air the FCC would be swamped with letters telling them to
             take it off and they would, so fuck the FCC. they all suck  mean
             DICKS just like #3 does

      6.  Christians,  baptists.  (I.E.  Holy  fucking  rollers) These are the
                                   people that are just as bad as  the  moonie
                                   hare  krishna devotee's  but these people
                                   monipolize  millions of dollars out of
                                   people  in  the  name  of  that  faggot GOD.
                                   Now  if  your unaware of this only 30%  goes
                                   to  charity the   other   70%  of  the money
                                   goes  to  themselves for blow jobs, wick
                                   weting  and  other  misc.  expensises
                                   rubbers abortions  Ect. now the moonie hare
                                   krisna's at  least  they  put it to what it
                                   should and does go  for. there  GOD.  the
                                   other  denominations  Suck they believe in
                                   wetting wicks but dont  belive  anyone
                                   should use there prostutes. so what do they
                                   do. bitch about prositution and other things
                                   porn books. when they turn  around  and
                                   would  fuck  anything  on  the  street  that
                                   had a cunt between it's legs.  this includes
                                   dogs, cats, sheep,  goats, 2  year  olds  on
                                   up, so as you see baptists / christians are
                                   hipacritical bastards.

      7.  M.C.  Hammer  (I.E.  Major  coward  Hammer.) that stupid nigger rap
                         star thats to scared to help his  own  country  out.
                         I.E.  the  persian gulf yeah everyone this fucker got
                         out of going he  paid  someone off. M.C. hammer is the
                         FIRST gutless Marine  I know. (See NAACP.)

      8. ACLU. (I.E. the american pinko commies) These are the people that are
               trying  to  turn  america  from  a  democratic  socity  into  a
               communist  socity.  these people are undermining everything our
               for farthers ever worked for. our freedom, every thing if these
               people suceed. then we'll have to ask to take  a  shit  ask  to
               wipe our ass's basicly we'd be very very fucked over.

      9.  NAACP. (I.E. Niggers Are Actuly Colored Polocks) These are the fucks
                 that every time a Business has a grevince with a lazy  nigger
                 that  does  more  sleeping  on  the  job  than work, when the
                 businees goes to fire the fucker,  these  left  wing  zealots
                 come  in  for  the  kill,  all what a nigger has to do is cry
                 racisim and boom the NAACP runs in for the (Kill)  law  suit.
                 Now wheres the protection for the Whites. Ahhh the Skin Heads
                 and  The  Klu  Klux  Klan  (KKK). now every red blooded white
                 hates niggers cuz they suck. but we still have  zealots  that
                 are  biggoted against the race but will turn around an listen
                 to there music, thus supporting these niggers. If  your  that
                 type of person then FUCK YOU AND YOUR WHOLE GREASY FAMILY!


      10.  People  (I.E.  Everybody)  Every  one  sucks cuz you cant depand on
                   anyone. There out there to fuck you over any way  possible.
                   Denny  for  example  and  Brad.  Fuck  the both of you cock
                   suckers. the only person you can trust is yourself. So fuck
                   the other guy fuck you too. all of  you  sucky  dicky  left
                   wing  zealots.  Fuck  you  all Eat me till my balls fucking
                   explode. Fuck every thing you people suck DICK yeah it's  a
                   Dog  Eat  Dog world out there. Oh and if you dont like this
                   text phile than why the fuck did you read it.

      11.  Lands End (I.E. a faggot board) Brad and Denny really get it on now
                     folks another faggot board has intercepted it's way  into
                     our community. Brad can Suck meen dicks from what I heard
                     and so does denny yeah they really sucky dicky each other
                     and  any  other animal or person that has a pair of balls
                     and a rod between its legs.

      12. The Master linkinfotainment (I.E. The way it is , The comedy Club.)
                                      Another Faggot board devoted  on  making
                                      people  wish  they had a HST modem and a
                                      386, yes folks if you don't have an  HST
                                      this  board  is not for you. if you have
                                      2400 expect the only thing you can do is
                                      upload you can't download he will  never
                                      allow  a  2400 baud user to download his
                                      wares. In other words FUCK YOU. I  guess
                                      thats what he's getting at..

      13.  This  whole  state  (I.E.  a hole in the fucking earth.) This state
                               sucks cuz denny lives in it,  his  family  does
                               too,  this  state also sucks cuz brad (sysop of
                               Lands End Lives in it.) This  state  SUCKS  cuz
                               you  people  all do. This state sucks cuz every
                               one is a  left  wing  ZEALOT,  that  would  put
                               everyone down cuz they have a half a brain more
                               than  they do. This state sucks cuz I can smell
                               Celulite coming down from  the  north.  (ormand
                               beach  area)  this  state sucks cuz john tanner
                               lives in it.

      14. John Tanner (I.E.  a  left  wing  Zealot.)  another  person  whom  i
                       despise.  He  seems  to get the idea that porn is dirty
                       sex. oh look at this hipocrital  bastard,  he  has  the
                       biggest  fucking play boy collection around. He fucking
                       plans to get all the  play  boys  and  other  porn  mag
                       removed  from  this  state  cuz it's dirty sex and this
                       state is full of good christians that dont put up  with
                       that.  (refer back to christians / Baptist.) Well folks
                       if it wasnt for dirty sex he'd still be swiming in  his
                       farthers  balls  and  he'd  be  stuck  to  a  tampon to
                       maxi-pad.

      15. Fat people (I.E. fat pigs) Fat people suck cuz they think  there  so
                     good  looking.  Gee  i  wonder if anyone told them FAT IS
                     OUT. fat people suck cuz they think there GOD'S  greatest
                     gift  to the FUCKING UNIVERSE.. Fat people Suck cuz green
                     peace wont push them back in the  sea  when  they're  sun
                     bathing.  Fat people better watch out now, I'm armed with
                     an explosive tiped HARPOON!






      --------------------------------------------------
      / This has been issue #1 of Hate and discontent /
      ------------------------------------------------

      Published on 05-05-1991

      Oh and all you geeks out there that want to say this word is  misspelled
      and that word is to. FUCK YOU, FUCK OFF and DIE SHIT SUCKERS.

      Master Satan Corp. CopyFucked 1991.
