Getting Trojan Infected Victims

by: rkaic

visit authormg.virtualave.net for more tutorials

There are basically 3 ways for you to attempt to get vic's:

1.  Trick them into running the server themselves
2.  Physically install the server yourself
3.  Scan for vic's already infected

The easiest method is method 3.  Use an AOL IP range, and you  will find victims almost instantaneously.  Most likely you will tire of these victims quickly, as there is no challenge  in this method and also no challenge in the victim's themselves (reason being they use AOL, 'nuff said).

The hardest method is method 2.  I won't go into details with this method, use your imagination if you attempt this method.

Method 1 is the most popular method, and without method 1, method 3 would not be as productive as it is. To use method 1, you need to hide the trojan server in another file and convince the future victim to run this file.  To hide the server, you need to use a binder program.  I recommend Joiner.  Joiner allows you to bind your server to an exe fileor a jpeg.

Joiner is very easy to use; just tell it the 2 files you want to bind and it will leave a copy of the new file in the joiner folder.  You may want to use a program such as Microangelo to change the icon of the new file so as not to appear suspicious.

As soon as the future victim runs this file, whether it be a picture or a game, the server will install itself onto their PC without them knowing.

Okay, so what happens after the victim runs the file?  He gets online, he gets scanned by someone else who connects to him and he is theirs.  So all of your efforts are wasted unless you edit the server before binding it.  Most of the popular trojans offer an edit server program.  Run this program (NEVER run the server itself) to set options such as if you want to be notified by ICQ,IRC or email when the victim gets online, if you want the server to be password protected, and other options to ensure the victim is yours and cannot be claimed by someone else.

One problem with the servers that offer all these options is they are usually pretty large files, meaning it would be almost impossible to bind them with a jpeg and convince someone to actually run it.  If you are on ICQ, and someone sends you a pic, but it takes 2 minutes to download, would you run it?

This can be solved quite easily.  You want to infect the future victim with Sub7.  Sub7's server is fairly large.  Go download a tiny trojan like the Thing or MiniCommand.  These small trojans don't offer much more than upload, download, and run file capabilities.  They are tiny.  Bind their server using Joiner to a file and tell Joiner to notify you by ICQ when the victim goes online.  Once you are notified, use the client for the Thing or MiniCommand, connect to the server, and upload the Sub7 server.  Once you upload the sub7 server, run it.  Now you can delete the first mini server and connect with your Sub7 client.

This file may be distributed as is for free.

To read more tutorials concerning trojans and other aspects of security, visit http://authormg.virtualave.net.

You can email me with questions at rkaic@yifan.net.