In-Shop Lifting
A Phile by M a J i N
Dec. 19, 2002


Contents.(No need but contents rock d00d)
[1. DISCLAIMER(You know I got one...)]
[2. The Hell is In-Shop lifting?]
[3. How It Is Done]
[4. Who Started the Idea(Guess WHO!)]
[5. Where to Hit]
[6. How to Hit]
[7. Contact(That movie SUCKED!!!)]





[1. DiScLaImEr]
Me, M a J i N, the dude who wrote this file... means for this to be for information purposes only(DUH!!! If you wanted to know, what it was... to say you know how it is done?!?) and if you do this in a store it is YOUR fault, not MINE, that you didn't read this well, or if you're a dumbass.

[2. The Hell is In-Shop Lifting?]
Well, In-Shop Lifting is basically lifting, in the shop, and not leaving with the goods... yet consuming the stuff. So needless to say, this will be food, candy, or other good stuff. I hope you grasped that well cause if you didn't, you need to forget about this phile cause you're a phucking moron. By the way.. I don't mean to insult so much, it's a hobby, a profession. So lay the phuck off!

[3. How Is It Done]
Basically self explanitory, what you will need to do is just act casual. Yeah, that's it. Because you will go into a store empty and come out prolly bloated from all the food you just scored. So what you do is... get you something, like potato chips, and something to drink, like a coke, and just munch and slurp while going to get items. The thing is, people think you will pay for them at the cash register... sorry but, that's not our style, is it? You go to da Bathrooms, staying out of sight... ditch the stuff... and continue on

[4. Who Started the Idea?]
Needless to say, I was absoluely NOT the first guy to do this. Yet, I have never seen this amazingly effective trick anywhere. I didn't learn this anywhere... I figured it out myself. I sort of invented it... cause... who the hell has claimed it yet? So therefore... you can safely say the I, M a J i N, have invented it... or claimed it. Anyways... this is a self-bragging chapter so sorreh for the shallowness of my poor greedy and conceited soul. :P

[5. Where to Hit]
I bet you are thinking something like, "Hey man, where do I actually go for this awesome techneque?" and the answer is... ANYWHERE!!! Yes that's right.. anywhere you can go for food, you can hit! Be warned though.. if you hit a place like Wal-Mart or something, you are more likely to get caught. This techneque isn't bullet-proof. Although I will be adding on to this in the near future.

So maybe it will be safer. I hit a Wal-Mart once upon a time, but not often, they have state of the art technology, so try something like a K-Mart, or any other store around you. It has to be big, not huge... but not a convience store... I mean... who munches on something while browsing through 2 aisles of candy and beer? Well you pick the place, just remember, you got to be good enough for them.

I recommend that you take the route of a local store. Take for example a common grocery store(Bi-Lo, or Albertsons, etc.) and hit it first. This is almost free food... sorry but there IS money attached to this plan... Read on.

[6. How to Hit]
Yes, yes. The longest and main part, How to Hit it all up. Ok, you have a store in mind. There are 3 things you need to know before hitting... go there for real a few times and check it all out while doing normal shopping. Look for this...
\par
1. If cameras are visible from where you enter the bathroom... 

2. If they have a good security system, so hang out and listen if you hear alot of security or irregular calls.(FACTOID:  Did you know that alot of the nonsense calls made are security codes telling someone to watch you closer, or to take you out, or anything. So if you get a call like... "300 and a half and electronics" and you are in electronics, get the hell out! If the place you are in is in an irregular call, run like hell to another one, if it continues... for the love of God, get the hell out of that store by any means possible, this may include laying the smack down on an old 90-year old, do it man. I'm serious, you don't wanna get caught. On the way out, be sure to grab goodies that won't slow you down.)

3. If they got alot of good spots and where would be a good place to hit.

Ok, after you do that I would advise you to practice looking cool, and swipe shit from your own home, like casualy picking up your phone like nothing ever happened. This is the trick, you walk by the item, and it disappears. The pigs hardly able to fit in that old room where the monitors are at don't even watch half the monitors all the time, and yeah, if they so watch them all at once, they wouldn't watch it close enough to look at what was in front of you and what is now behind you. Besides, they got maybe 10-20 more monitors to watch.

Now you are in the store, with good intentions only, XD! Now here you are, faced with options. You should go from right to left or left to right. Also, don't steal at first. Wait until mid-way. Then get you some shit like a coca-cola, or some potato chips, and then when you are not visible by a camera(If you can't see one, or couldn't from where the action is going on at, it can't see it.) then take the food... scarf it... and take the bags, and put them in your pockets. Not too much like where the buldge out. Just keep them there.. Then walk into the bathroom, and throw away some trash :). Now just go and pay for your items.. and if someone says you were eating on something, simply say that you don't know what they are talking about. They will not cause a big scene. Just say that you have no idea. Stick to your story so the most they would ever do is keep an eye on you when you come back.

Another thing you can also do, if you are a teenager or kid, is get milk, like your favorite, and drink it.. now hang out where you get the milk at, and when someone is unattending their buggy, ditch it in there... this is how I figured it out. I was smaller and got a coke.. and then found the guy I was with and thought I put it in the buggy, it was another guy's buggy, he strolled off, and I went to get another one. Follow the person, and make the people watching the secutity cams that you are with that person, and then go ouside and you are home free. Just don't look suspicious, and don't look back, no matter what. Also try your best to act cool... lift up something from a friend or something... and see if he notices... then try a local market... this will have an add on in the near future. Not to say it will be my next, but sometime next year i'll write one.

[7. Contact]
My Email is Crescent_Omega@Hotmail.com
My ICQ # is 174846726
My Yahoo ID is CrescentApocalypseShenlon
My AIM ID is Arsenic Pyro

