
**Intercepting & re-transmitting data over phone lines** - By Captain B

Fax machines, modems, CID (Caller ID) units, and even TTY/TDD machines all
transmit data over landline phone lines. And, of course, all data is sent
over phone lines in the form of sounds. So, just as you can record a
string of DTMF (touch tones), and play it back after recorded to dial that
same number, or voice mailbox passcode, or whatever, so too could you also
record a fax transmition, then play back that transmition over a phone
line connected to a fax machine. Thereby re- transmitting the same fax
document. Much the same thing is the case for TTY/TDD machines. You could
record an entire conversation between 2 people using a TTY/TDD on each end
of the line, or even between a relay operator and a person using a
TTY/TDD. After recording the TTY/TDD conversation, simply play it back
while a TTY/TDD is on the other end of the line to re-transmit all the
data (the TTY/TDD conversation) again. Recording CID data transmitions
will, of course, enable you to spoof sent caller ID. (Orange box) But
since that's already been covered in 2600 magazine, and on the Internet, I
won't bother going into that. With modems and computer networks however,
things aren't as straightforward. Since you have such security features as
the 3 way handshake with TCP/IP, things get more complex than they do with
fax and TTY/TDD machines. I'll leave that sort of thing alone, and
continue on about recording methods. The most common method is to use a
cassette or micro cassette recorder. Radio Hack sells a "Phone cassette
recorder" (Cat# 43-473 Cost: $99.99) but, any cassette recorder with
either a mic input jack, or left/right channel "audio in" RCA phono jacks
will work. You'll need to buy one of Radio Shack's recorder controls. 2 of
which (Cats. #43-228 and 43-1236) connect between your phone and phone
jack. Another, (Cat# 43-1237) connects between your phone and the handset.
And the last one (Cat# 44-533) is nothing more than a suction cup mic that
attaches near the receiver (earpiece) of your handset. The price range for
these is between $24.99 for the deluxe recorder control, to $4.49 for the
telephone pickup suction cup mic. All use a 1/8 plug for connecting to 1/8
jacks. But, with the countless audio plug adapters availible, you can
adapt the 1/8 plug to an RCA phono plug, 1/4 plug, even the more obscure
3/32 plug. By using these adapters, you can connect up your phone line via
a recorder to various types of equipment for audio monitoring or recording
purposes. For instance, you could connect up to a stereo amp for
monitoring, or a stereo amp with a cassette deck connected to the amp for
recording purposes. You could also connect up to standard cassette or
micro cassette dictation-type recorders, and tapeless digital
dictation-type recorders. With certain tapeless digital recorders, you can
even upload the audio to your PC as a .wav file. 2 phone recorders that
connect to your PC can be found at
http://www.ahernstore.com/phonerecorders.html And, they also sell standard
phone recorders, too. And, Radio Shack sells 2 digital tapeless
dictation-type recorders you could use with a recorder control to connect
it to your phone line, and then connect to a PC for uploading the audio.
Or, you could just connect up the recorder control directly to the sound
card on your PC, and run a program that records the audio as a .wav file.
You could even connect up to a DJ stereo mixer, or CD recorder (burner).
As long as you use the proper audio plug adapters, you can connect up to
many different types of audio equipment. There's lots of possibilities.
For example, when connecting to a single (Mono) RCA phono plug, use a 1/8
jack-to-RCA phono plug adapter. In the case of any stereo audio equipment
with seperate L/R audio inputs, attach the 1/8 jack-to-RCA phono plug
adapter to a RCA phono jack-to-dual RCA phono plugs "Y adapter". Ask them
at Radio Shack about other adapters if you need to. It'll give them
something else to do besides asking for your name/address/phone number
when making purchases. Have phun.
