			Late Night Antics

				by

				Anonymous (8/6/99)


Preface

Sneaking out can be fun if you live in a large housing development, but
there are rules that need to be followed in order to have the most fun and
to not get caught. In my career of late night anarchy, ive been caught 3
times, and all because i didnt follow the rules or my partner in crime
didnt follow the rules. So obviously, the first part of this textfile is
the rules to sneaking out.

Rules


1. PLAN! If you decide to sneak out, dont just do it on the spur of the
moment, sit down and think up a plan. What you will do, when you will
leave, when you will get back, equipment, contingency plans etc..

2. Have a group of 2 OR 3 people only. 1 person looks suspicious and 4
people looks REALLY suspicious.

3. Avoid any other contact with people. Stay away from houses that are lit
up, known motion sensor lights, friends, neighbors, neighborhood watch and
especially COPS!

4. Pack light. Dont carry a backpack unless you plan on stealing things, or
you need it to carry larger tools like a hooligan tool (crowbar) or bolt
cutters. Backpacks looks suspicious. A tip, carry an empty chip bag and
some crushed soda cans in your bag. In case you get caught, you can say
that you had the backpacks to carry the food in while you were on your
"walk"

5. Dress dark but not camoflauge, that looks too criminal-like.

6. Never let your guard down!! This is what got us in trouble 2 out of 3
times. We were walking down a main road and a cop nabbed us and my friend
decided not to run when the cop car came around the corner about a block
away. Never think you cant be caught, because when you do, you make stupid
mistakes.

7. No drinking or drugs beforehand. With your slowed reflexes, you are just
asking to be caught by the cops. You dont want to add an alcohol/drug
conviction to your list if you get caught, do you?

8. Learn to walk silently. A good method is putting one foot right in front
of the other and stepping heel-toe, heel-toe.

9. Listen. Cop cars are always on when the cops are on duty. Since they
have high preformance engines, they are kinda loud. Other things to listen
for are the sound of tires on the pavement and cars starting. Remember
people WILL report you to the cops or the neighborhood watch. One
particular time, my friend and i had an entire caravan of neighborhood
do-gooder-mobiles searching for us. They will usually cruise slow and have
spot lights. If you hear a car, BOOK FOR COVER. I cant stress this enough,
_IF YOU HEAR/SEE A CAR, HIDE!_

10. Wear gloves. If people call the cops the following day, they will
probably dust for prints. You could also get a peice of cloth and use it as
a barrier between you and the object

OK enough with the rules. Now for Equipment

Equipment

1. Dark Clothing
2. Tools. I reccomend a leatherman multi-tool or any other brand. Good for
prying, unscrewing etc..
3. Knife. You always need a good sharp knife when sneaking out. Its perfect
for pretty much anything. Slashing tires, cutting hoses, scratching
expensive car paint jobs
4. Flashlight with red filter. Use only when you have to. Nothing is more
conspicious than a flashlight
5. Gloves. Duh
6. Spray Paint. Always fun!
7. Krazy Glue!! The best tool in anyone's aresnal! Put it in locks, on
windsheild wipers, Glue mailboxes shut, hell krazy glue can take up to 2000
pounds per square inch so be creative (remember the billboards with cars
stuck to them with only krazy glue?)
8. Toothpicks. Used with or without krazy glue, stick em in locks and break
em off. Damn near impossible to get out without a pricy visit from a
locksmith.
9. Lighter or matches
10. Balloons. Fill with water and rit dye for a solution that doesnt come
off of anything very easily.

Advanced Equipment

Warning, Should only be used if you are positive there are no cops. Like if
you live out in the boonies or such

1. Bolt Cutters. If you cant figure out what to do with these, you shouldnt
be reading this
2. Hooligan tool (Crowbar). Ditto
3. Explosives. M-80's, firecrackers, roman candles. Blow stuff up, duh
4. Backpack. To carry the big stuff in
5. Pellet gun. Breaking glass. Get ready to run if you use it
6. Bat. Smash things

Activities


1. One of my favorites HAS to be mail theft. You wouldnt believe the stuff
you can find in people's mail. Some of the things i have found are: MONEY,
phone cards, CDs, Videos, Porno mags, Credit cards, tax returns (fun to
drop down sewers), clothing etc.. but for god sake DONT GET CAUGHT WITH THE
MAIL! Keep only the good things. Tampering with the mail will get you in
some SERIOUS (and i mean serious) SHIT with the cops and federal government.

2. Cars. Its easy enough to find unlocked cars in a nice quiet
neighborhood. Be sure to have an accomplice be lookout while you are in the
car. Check glove compartments, consoles, ashtrays and visors. And when
youre done, dont slam the door. And always check for alarms. Usually there
will be a little red blinking light on the dash. Alarms are typically found
on more expensive cars (obviously). Other fun things with cars include:
Krazy gluing the wipers in place, taking the rubber blade off the wiper
(SCRAAAATCH!) Smear vaseline on the windshield, steal the gas cap, or if
its a locking one make it extra secure by breaking off a toothpick in it or
filling it with krazy glue.

3. Lawn orniments, Gnomes, fat ladies bending over, those big gay orbs.
Collect 'em all! Or smash the shit out of them.

4. Houses. Some oldies but goodies. Eggs, toilet paper, etc.. Shoot windows
with pellet gun, dump dish soap in the Koi pond (funny shit) Or the
ultimate, break in. I really do not reccomend this, because it should not
be a spontaneous things. You need to plan for a while and stake out the
house. Try to do it when the people are going on vacation. Check for dogs,
security systems and such. also, Never ever ever break into a house in your
own neighborhood. Only do this if you have access to a car. Go to some
other neighborhood and do it. Cops are nosy and they will ask around if you
do it in yours.

5. Businesses. Steal their mail, Rearrange their signs (like at Rotten
Ronnie's and Burger King) Dump over trashcans, sabotage their equipment
etc..

6. GRAND UNION. OK, this is a really great tip for anyone that lives near a
grand union. At exactly 10:00pm EST, Grand Union Turns off their video
camera system!. At this time, loss prevention employees leave and  leave 2
or 3 night shift employees behind. By 10:30 there is pretty much nobody in
the store. Grand Union is open 24 hours. If you go there anytime after
Midnight, there is will only be the 2 loss prevention guys there. What do
you do in a supermarket with no cameras, 2 fat slow night shift guys, and a
backpack? You go fuckin nuts on that store. Steal anything you want,
large or small. My sister and i went, we left with $48 of premium poloroid
film (2 2paks) and a shitload of krazy glue. We were in a real hurry
though, we could have stayed but we had to be home. You can get anything
you want in a grand union after 10pm EST. Beer, Cigarettes (yuck, its a
nasty habit, winners dont do drugs), magazines, batteries, toys, videos,
anything. I dont know where else in the US they have grand unions, but us
new york residents sure are lucky to have them.

7.Assorted other mischeivous things:
a. mailbox baseball
b. exploding mailboxes
c. spray paint, spray paint, spray paint
d. caltrops. (take 2 nails and bend them in the middle to about 135°
sharpen each end and weld them togethet at the bend. when you drop them,
one point is always pointing up.) stick them under car tires, on walkways,
roads etc..
e. Piss. If youre really mad, stand on something and piss in a mailbox.

8. Krazy glue. Bonds skin instantly. put on car door handles, mailboxes, or
anything you can think of that you want to stick together or have someone
stick to. It hurts like a bitch to get your fingers unstuck from each other
though so be careful.

9. Construction Sites. Fun stuff. Break into offices (careful), tip over
porta-johns, turn on the jhonny on the spot or break it.

10. Gas stations (not open 24 hrs.) Cut the hoses, stuff the nozzles in the
garbage cans etc...

Getting Caught

1. Anything you do can get you caught including doing nothing.
2. Dont lie to the cops it only makes you look worse
3. Find out about the curfew in your area. If you are over 16, you can
usually be out whenever you damn well please.
4. Know your rights
5. If someone else is trying to lie to the cops, keep your mouth shut.
Youll get in less trouble
6. 3 words: Guilt by association. If you dont want to be a part of
something, make sure you dont see it and tell everyone not to tell you
about it.


Final Thoughts

Dont be Stupid, be sure that you plan and DONT EVER THINK YOU CANT BE
CAUGHT!



