<------------------------------------- The Light Bulb Vaporizer 
------------------------------------>
                                                        [By: egregius 2004]

   DOCUMENT DISCLAIMER:
                                                    The information 
contained in this document is intended for educational purposes only. The 
author has no responsibility in any form for use of this document in any 
way. Use this document at your own personal risk only. Use of this document 
violates your local, state, and federal laws in the United States of 
America. Readers located in counties besides America should investigate your 
nations laws before using any information contained in this document. Use at 
personal risk of violating the law.

<---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->

ABOUT VAPORIZORS AND VAPORIZATION:

                   A light bulb vaporizer is a light bulb with the end 
broken off, cleaned out and a straw sized tube. The user puts the substance 
in the bulb applies a flame to the top of the glass end of the bulb, and 
inhales the vapors let off by the heated substance through the end you screw 
in, through the tube. Most drugs including marijuana, methamphetamine, 
free-based cocaine, opium, heroin, DMT, foxy, MDMA, and most everything else 
can be vaporized using this method. Vaporizing produces a rush because the 
substance hits the brain faster then injection. (Less then a second) That’s 
why some people may risk becoming addicted with some substances. Some 
people’s minds just are more likely to addict when the drug is inhaled. But 
in most cases vaporization is much better then smoking it because you don’t 
burn the substance. Plus you don’t get the byproducts of the combustion of 
the substance.

                   In the case of marijuana you can get up to 95% of the THC 
in the weed. When you vaporize weed the THC vaporizes at a lower temperature 
then the other chemicals and contents of the plant. Therefore you can inhale 
95% of the desired chemical, without any of the unwanted byproducts of 
combustion nor the chemicals it contains.  Cancer and AIDS patients often 
choose this method because of the reduction of unwanted poisons and 
chemicals. The main advantages to this are the amount of weed it takes to 
get high. You can get stoned off an extremely lesser amount then smoking it. 
The high is slightly different. More clear-headed, and calm. Also vaporizing 
produces very little odor. You can smoke with people who disapprove in the 
house. I suggest a little cover-up smell, and that will cover the small 
amount of pot odor.

                To vaporize hold the bulb about 5/6ths of an inch over a 
flame, so the bulb doesn’t get black. Hold the flame right above the 
substance in the bulb. When you see a white vapor filling the bulb take a 
hit. You might leave the flame on the shit if you want to keep it vaporizing 
for a bigger hit, but remember it will keep vaporizing after you take it off 
the flame, until the temperature cools below it’s boiling point. You might 
want to shake the substance around so it evenly cooks. Some chemicals you 
might want to use “rock” or chunks of it, so it stays together inside the 
bulb, and is easier to cook. Meth is an example of this. With weed, break it 
up so all the pieces are small, and around the same size. This will help it 
cook faster, and evenly. You can usually tell when the substance is gone. 
With pot the shit is brown, and the hits taste like burning weed. At this 
point dump the spent pot, but you can smoke it and get further effects. With 
other substances you can taste it, and tell by its appearance. Remember you 
are also inhaling the contents of the substance other then the desired 
chemical. This may pose a health hazard. Some people may have undesired 
effects from vaporizing drugs. I’ve herd of vaporizing math causing 
first-timers to freak out, and have heart problems. So keep the 
possibilities in mind.

HOW TO MAKE A VAPORIZOR:

Supplies:
1. Light bulb.
2. Tube
3. Strong cleaner for inside of bulb.
4. Pliers, or something to grip and break off the metal end.
5. Substance for vaporization.

Procedure:

1. Choose a light bulb. Anyone that you can break the bottom off of, and see 
throught it will work. Frosted bulbs will work, if you are able to clean the 
internal coating off. Some won’t come off. I suggest using the round small 
25 watt bulbs. They the just the right size and the metal end breaks clean 
off, perfect. If you want portability, choose small bulbs like car break 
lights.

2. Using piers or something similar, grip the metal end close to the bulb, 
and ease pressure on it. You want to break it as clean off as possible.

3. Clean the bulb inside and out. Make sure you get the internal clean 
because of coatings and frostings.

4. You need a tube, the best is a bic-type pen. Take out the guts. You need 
a plastic tube and not a straw because the heat applied to the bulb will 
melt a straw first use. A pen tube will last forever. Continued use of the 
same tube will yield build up of the substance in the inner walls of the 
tube. This can be re-vaporized.

5. Use the shit. Some people may need something to hold the bulb due to 
heat. After much use the shit will buildup on the sides of the bulb. You can 
vaporize it, but with weed you will need to clean it often. The bulb becomes 
yellow, and the black weed sticks to it. When this happens you can’t see the 
vapor to inhale it. For the best vaporizer use the round-small 25 watt clear 
bulbs, with a bic-style pen tube that has a finger grip. The end will break 
off clean, and you insert the finger-grip end into the bulb. The grip will 
hold it in place, and it works perfect. Remember not to grab the hot bulb. 
Any bulb will burn out after much use. The inside will become too covered in 
spent shit. Then you need to find a new one. Enjoy this basic addict 
information!

<---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->

    The following document was written by egregious. E-mail me @: 
counterprogram@hotmail.com FUCK THE WORLD!



