Lying 757
By: Anarchy Adam

	In the history of the world, there have been many terrorist attacks threatened and executed.  The Webster’s Dictionary definition says that terrorism is “The unlawful use or threatened use of force or violence by a person or an organized group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons.”  Since 1920, twenty-nine acts of terror within America or against Americans have occurred.  The Al Qaeda, a well-known terrorist organization, is generally associated with many of these operations and most specifically the September 11th attacks.  This organization was also linked to a bombing of the U.S. Embassy in 1998.  With all of this information in mind, there is still a greater group of terrorists that the Al Qaeda.  Out of all the terrorist groups, the Bush Administration has taken more lives, used more of the world’s resources, committed more crimes, and caused the most global problems.

	There are numerous theories about the endless loops of misinformation on the September 11th attacks.  It is hard to know what to believe because there are no solid facts on this historical event.  This is what the Bush Administration wanted.  They wanted confusion and to keep the people from being able to understand what happened.  That always makes their job a whole lot easier.  There are groups of people, however, who have done the necessary research.  Many movies have been produced that show evidence for and against what the government has stated.  Before delving into this information that incriminates President George W. Bush and every last person whose pocket money has the President’s fingerprints on it, it is important to analyze the reason why the government might try to pull off such a massacre of American citizens.  In Stephen Colbert’s speech at the White House Correspondent’s Dinner, he makes a very truthful statement.  “I'm a simple man with a simple mind.  I hold a simple set of beliefs that I live by.  Number one, I believe in America. I believe it exists.  My gut tells me I live there.  I feel that it extends from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and I strongly believe it has 50 states.  And I cannot wait to see how the Washington Post spins that one tomorrow. I believe in democracy.  I believe democracy is our greatest export. At least until China figures out a way to stamp it out of plastic for three cents a unit.”  Democracy is undoubtedly the largest percentage of our country’s exports.  It is easy to see, despite the many obstacles placed in the way, that our government firmly believes that if the world is going to be made a better place, it must be a democratic better place.  This is what our President stands for, and as unfortunate as this is, it is the cause for many of the attacks that occurred and the deaths of many innocent, patriotic Americans that resulted from the attacks.

	It’s time for America to overturn the investigation of this day and all the events leading up to it.  In order for anything to come from September 2001 and for our country to grow from this time, people must individually come to a conclusion on what happened.  This conclusion needs to be drawn from accurate facts compiled from research and truth, not from statements that the media or government agencies have made.  The first attack of September 11th, 2001 was the impact of Flight 11 on the north side of World Trade Center Tower 1 between the 94th and 98th floors at a speed of 490 miles per hour.  The second attack was the impact of Flight 175 on the south side of the South Tower between the 78th and 84th floors at a speed of over 500 miles per hour.  Both of these impacts resulted in the implosion and collapse of the two buildings.  This collapse was too perfect to be the result of airplanes.  The construction of these buildings was specifically structured to withstand something of this nature and experts say that the implosions are the same as any controlled demolition that they have seen.  There is much confusion as to the actual cause of this mass destruction.  For instance, if terrorists did not do this attack and the government staged it with explosive devices, what did they gain?  The government gained full reason to go to war with the middle-east, and why would they want to do that?  The middle-eastern countries control the world’s largest export of petroleum.  By going to war with these countries, the American government could seize this petroleum and end the United States current fueling problems.

	The third attack was on the Pentagon.  Flight 77 hit the Pentagon at 9:37 A.M. giving two F-15 jets 34 minutes to intercept it.  It can be appropriately assumed that it was not a coincidence that the jets were not sent out.  Other important facts include that the Pentagon attack resulted in a 16 foot diameter hole.  The wingspan of a Boeing 757 is 124 feet not including the tail sections or the twin 6 ton titanium alloy jet engines.  The information that sets this attack apart from the others is that it is even more physically impossible.  There was no debris recovered from the plane, making this the only Boeing 757 crash to not leave behind the titanium alloy jet engines.  These engines have a melting point of 1688 degrees Celsius.  The jet fuel in a 747 gets to a maximum heat of 1120 degrees Celsius, but only if this fuel is maintained.  The majority of the fuel would have burned off upon impact.  So, where are the jet engines?  In fact, not only are the engines missing from the wreck, the total debris that was left could be carried off by hand.  The intent of terrorists is to cause the most possible damage.  It just does not make much sense that people with that goal would crash into the area of the building where the least amount of citizens work.  This is the only section that was renovated shortly before the crash and consisted of mostly empty offices.

	The fourth and final attack that day was Flight 93 crashing in Shanksville, Pennsylvania at 10:03 a.m.  According to seismic data, the actual time of impact was 10:06 a.m.  Why the distance in times?  F-16’s arrived in Washington, D.C. at 9:49 a.m.  After Flight 77 hits the Pentagon, Flight 93 was the only flight in the air with its transponder turned off as well as the only flight in air that was headed for Washington.  F-16’s have a top speed of over 1500 MPH.  They could have intercepted Flight 93 within 5-8 minutes.  Why didn’t they?  Another side of the story is the possibility that the jets did intercept.  The debris left from this plane was strewn in as far as a one mile radius from the crash site.  The explanation that the government made was that wind had carried the items, such as clothing, away from the site.  This does not make sense because if the plane had crashed like the Bush Administration stated, the debris would not be in the air it would be on the ground, making it impossible for it to be carried that far by the wind.  

	All of the misinformation from this day of attacks does not add up.  There is obviously something that the government is trying to hide.  Otherwise, there would be no need for all of the lies to the American people.  There are numerous procedural breaches in the investigation that make it impossible for anyone to prove either side of the story.  It is a strict standard to run forensic investigations on all metal from a collapsed building in order to search for explosive residue.  This test was not completed on the World Trade Centers which is highly suspicious.  In addition to this, there were various surveillance cameras that caught the Pentagon crash on tape.  These were all confiscated by government organizations and the workers of these places were told not to disclose any information about the events that occurred.  It does not make sense that the Bush administration would go through this much trouble to cover up something that did not really happen.  If they staged all of these attacks, set them up, or just allowed them to happen, is this not inflicting terror in a group of people? It is, and this is called terrorism.  These people, the ones who are supposed to be leading our nation, sabotaged the country and thousands of innocent people.  They caused grief all over the nation and put the entire society in fear.  This administration is full of criminals and those are not the people that should be leading such an amazing power.  In another quote from Stephen Colbert he says, “I stand by this man. I stand by this man because he stands for things. Not only for things, he stands on things. Things like aircraft carriers and rubble and recently flooded city squares. And that sends a strong message: that no matter what happens to America, she will always rebound -- with the most powerfully staged photo ops in the world.”  This was a selfish act executed and covered up by the administration whose paychecks come from American’s hard earned profits.  These people are not leaders and the American people should not accept one word that comes from their mouths, when they deserve to be speaking through bars on a prison cell.

