
SURVIVING AS A MARKED CITIZEN

When you commit any crime, and the police know you did
it, the government marks you. Your picture and
personal information are on every database in the U.S.
almost instantly. If a cop sees you and decides to run
a check for any tiny reason, your warrant will come up
and you'll be busted. But people who commit crimes
can live a psuedo-normal lifestyle without looking over
their shoulders every second. These people are known as
being "marked" meaning once you do something wrong, you
are branded for life by the police until they catch you.

But my document will teach you how to never get caught,
no matter what crime you commit.
I'm assuming its serious enough that you'll be willing
to move around alot to stay out of jail. Here are my
guidelines. Stick to these for the rest of your life
and you won't ever be put in the slammer for what you
did.

1. Obey all road rules:
        too many crime lords have been screwed over by
        simply not wearing their seat belt and getting
        the ID check.
2. No more bars!
        From the moment you commited your crime, you
        gave up the freedom of going anywhere where
        you have to show your license or ID. It may be
        better to cut up all forms of ID you have, so
        you don't forget and screw yourself over a mai-
        tai.
3. Pay your taxes!
        You still need to pay your taxes even if you are
        living as marked. Otherwise your evasiveness
        will stop when its time to pay your taxes and
        you'll be charged with failure to do so.
        Always, always change your address AND place of
        employment directly after paying your taxes, as
        you do have to give that info to the government
        which is like saying "hey, Im right here, catch
        me!".
4. Get a job under the table
        You can't have a job anymore because you need to
        give the employer your social security number.
        Find a job where you get paid cash under the
        table, there are some out there.
5. Establish a new ID
        Get a fake ID, and change your name, at least
        unofficially. Also, there are some great text-
        files on how to get a new ID (completely) in the
        U.S. that you can find on the internet.

Good luck and good running!

ENDER
         
