PhreeX Methcathinone Recipie


It would appere alot of you are having problems with the easy meth
synths. So, I offer you a methcathinone ("Cat") synth.
"Cat" is like meth in the sense it speeds you up, however, its
completely lacks the mental stuff meth offers. You won't
have those "I can take over the world" fealings. Cat offers more of a
"silly" high. Not the type thing you would sit around
all night talking about Canada's Biotoxic Chemical Weppons and their
conspiracy to dominate the world on, but if you were
going to a carnival or maybe shroomin' then this will work fine!

Dosage ammounts are MORE then meth, to REALLY get the cat fealing your
going to have to do ALOT more then if it were meth.
Alot of people have totally written this drug off, personally, I enjoy
the cat high - and its so easy to make (as well as
CHEAP) that its worth it. 

If you can NOT make this, then there IS NO DRUG you can make. Cat is as
easy as they come. ALL the chemicals are sold at
hardware stores and you don't need anything but a few snapple bottles
for glassware. The recipie I offer is one that I have
(dreamed of) using MANY MANY times and it has ALWAYS made me a good 3
grams of good cat (in my dreams, since making
methacathinone IS illegal and PhreeX dosen't do illegal things) Most of
this information was taken from the Methcathinone
HCl FAQ v2.2 as well as the submissions from others online. THIS EXACT
recipie has been tested (by people who are not me,
since this is illegal)

Chemicals

     KMnO4 [Potassium Permaganate] - This is sold at 'Sears' in a blue
bottle (catalog #4234415) Its used to remove iron
     from water filters
     Pseudephedrine HCl - Get a box of 96 'Equate' Tablets from Wal-Mart
     Isopropanol [Isopropyl Rubbing Alcohol] - Any grocery store or
pharmacy
     Hydrochloric Acid [HCl] - Sold as "Muriatic Acid"
     Acetone - Sold at any hardware store or paint store
     Distilled Water - Sold at any grocery store

Lab Stuff

     Strainer - The smaller the holes the better! (hehe guess this
applys to other things as well)
     Plastic Funnel - Check your local grocery store
     Coffee Filters - Use "Maxwelll House"
     3 Snapple Bottles - I perfer pink lemonade. Not that it really
matters, it the bottle we need but hey, gotta empty it
     somehow!
     Large Jug - Like a glass fruit juice jug
     Measuring Cup - Marked if mL's
     Syringe - The kind they use to feed babys by mouth, marked in ML's
     Pyrex Dish - PYREX only!
     Access to a refridgerator
     Access to a microwave

Pseudoephedrine Extraction - 

Take all 96 pills and put them in the strainer. Add some crushed ice,
you want more like ice shavings than big chunks of
ice. Simply shake the strainer back and fourth, as the ice melts you
will notice the red coating on the pills comming off.
You may want to QUICKLY rinse the pills once or twice. When you notice
most of the red coating is gone (the pills will be a
light pink in color) its time to take the pills and put them in one of
the Snapple bottles. You must now add 150ml of
distilled water. Now place the jar in the microwave (leave the cap off)
and heat until the water is HOT - NOT boiling but
HOT! Shake the bottle (with the cap on) till all the pills break apart,
then let it settle. Using the plastic funnel and
coffee filters you now want to filter the water into another Snapple
bottle, cap this bottle and set it aside. You will
want to scrape all the crap from the coffee filter BACK into the first
bottle, add 150ml of distilled water and heat again.
Filter adding the water to the second Snapple bottle (that all ready has
the 150mLs from your first filtration). Again you
will repeat this process (another 150mL of water)

You should now have 450mL of water in one bottle and some gritty crap in
the other. Cap the bottle with the water and put
in in the refridgerator. Wash the other bottle out and set it aside. The
bottle with the water contains the
pseudoephedrine.

You must now prepare your KMnO4 soultion. This is done by adding 7.43
grams of KMnO4 to 100ml of water. Measure out the
7.43 grams (if you don't have a digi then estimate a little high, if you
UNDER this wont work but its fine to be over). and
put them in the clean, empty Snapple bottle. Now, add 100mL of distilled
water, cap, and shake the shit out of it. Using
the syringe measure out 15.5mL of this soultion, and add it to 250mL of
distilled water in the 3rd snapple bottle. Cap,
shake, and put it in the refridgerator.

You MUST allow both these liquids to cool. If they are NOT cold then
your reaction will FAIL So leave them in the fridge
for a good 4-6 hours.

Go hang out on IRC and brag about how you're some super leet drug
chemist.

Now its time for the actuall reaction. You simply mix the 265.5mL KMnO4
Soultion, with the 450mL Pseudoephedrine extract in
the jug (or other container). Just cap, shake, and set it in the
refridgerator for at least 8, but no more then 12 hours. 

Go back on IRC and continue to brag about cool a drug chemist you are,
maybe download some porn, masturbate, something of
that nature - just make sure you let this mixture react in the
refridgerator for a good 8 hours!

After about 8 hours check the mixture to see if there is any purple
color, if there is then let it set for another hour or
so. Once you see there is no more purple, remove the soultion from the
refridgerator. It should smell sweet, kind of like
pistacio ice cream, or like a young virgin girl in the springtime ..
eating pistacio ice cream!

You must now add 100mL of Isopropyl Rubbing Alcohol. This is done so
that the remaining KMnO4 wil have something else to
oxidize (instead of the pseudoephedrine). Just let this mixture sit out
for about 2 to 3 hours.

Return to IRC and tell everyone how you're almost done with your 10 kilo
batch of pure MDMA. They will probably bow before
you, since they think your a scary drug chemist!

Your mixture should now be at about room tempature, its time to FILTER!
Set up the funnel over one of the Snapple bottles
used earlier (WASH IT first damnit!). Put about two or three coffee
filters in the funnel and SLOWLY pour the soultion thru
them (slowly so all those maganeese particles in the bottom don't pour
out and clog your filter). You will proably need to
filter three or four times - you want your liquid to be as clear as
possible.

You need to adjust the pH to about 5 to 6.5. To do this, use a little
muriatic acid JUST A FEW DROPS! Once you have the
correct pH, swirl your final mixture and let it set for a while. Now,
filter it thru about five coffee filters - this is
your LAST chance to get any crap out of it. Your liquid should be almost
totally clear. What you have is methcathinone, you
can drink some of this (taste like shit) but thats no fun, so were going
to crystalize it - then you can snort it, or sell
it.

Pour all your liquid into the pyrex dish and set in on the stove (low
heat) for about 3 hours, you want to evaporate MOST
of the liquid. Once you notice you have a mostly gummy subtance left,
remove the dish from the stove. Now you can either
use a blow drier, or as I perfer to do, simply leave the dish out for
about a day. You should notice crystals in the dish,
thsee are going to be gummy so you simply add some Acetone, the
methcathinone is NOT soluable in Acetone, the other gummy
shit is. After adding the acetone, swirl it around as the shit disolves,
pour it off, and you SHOULD notice some brownish
to white crystals - this is your cat! You may have to do this again,
just let the crystals dry and add more acetone. Once
its all dry, scrape the crystals out of the dish into something. You
should have about 3 grams of Methcathinone HCl - A
Schedule 1 drug, so don't get caught! I have seen this sell for about
$75 a gram. Its best you DON'T shoot this.

Again, if you found this TO DIFFICULT then I'm sorry ot say - there is
*NO* drug you can make at home, this is as easy as
is gets :(