MISHIEF AND FUN by XxCasperxXxSuicidexX

DISCLAIMER:
now before we start in light of recent events some of these ideas may get 
you into some serious trouble as with the events of columbine and other 
tragic shootings throughout the country in past years. also no one is in 
anyway responsible for your actions but you. so if you blow a fucking hand 
off or hurt or even kill somone or get arrested or any thing like that 
becuase you're A MORON that's on you. also and this is highly important 
DON'T SMOKE CRACK!!!!!! hahahahaha

NOW THAT ALL OF THAT'S OUT OF THE WAY ONTO THE GOOD STUFF.

FIREWORKS ALWAYS A CLASSIC
there are several types of fireworks but i'll stick with the basics and most 
readily available.

1. ladyfingers(the small ones in rows of such and such number) : now these 
are classic and always useful in thousands of ways. we'll cover a few and 
you can use your own imagination for other ideas. when kept in rows and lit 
these are affective for clearing out crowds. for example back in '96 myself 
and three friends where in class and i happened to have a few packs of these 
on my at the time. we all got together during lunch and set them off in 
different parts of the school at different times roughly about two minutes 
apart. this made for a nice effect especially when one of our buddies ran 
throuhg the halls screaming he's got a gun he's got a gun. now as i said 
before this isn't such a good idea now after all the school shootings. but 
try it during a parade or in a club or even at the mall just do yourself a 
favor and don't scream anything about a gun. that wouldn't be very smart.

2.m-80's cherry bombs etc: now these bad muthafuckaz can blow your hands off 
so be ETREMELY CAREFULL!!! anyway the classic uses are as follows. blowing 
up toilets or "fishing". if you have water proof ones which aren't to hard 
to find you can flush them down toilets which will blow the it to hell, or 
toss them in a body of water and see what floats up. these can also be used 
to blow up just about anything you can think of. now i don't agree with 
hurting animals for fun.personally that shit is really lame. but hey to each 
is own right? so if you want to blow up your cat's ass that's on you, you 
fucking weirdo. there are un-countable things to do with these so use your 
imagination.

3. ahhh good old bottle rockets: now these come in many shapes and sizes 
from small to huge. there are regulars, large, 2 oz.,4 oz.,6 oz. and the 
list goes on. there are some that explode some that wistle some that have 
dazzling affects the choice is yours. i usually stick with any except the 
gay ones like paratroopers and  the likes of kiddie ones. now you can do 
alot with these. shoot them at what ever you want, wake up the neighborhood 
at 3 in the a.m, blow shit up(of course) what ever the possibilities are 
endless. now depending on the type you can come up with different things or 
different ways to do even the same shit over and over. i'm leaving this kind 
of a grey area since the design is basic  and hasn't changed in centuries 
and the ideas some might think of could be dangerous so your basically on 
your own here.

4. rockets( the big stationary ground ones): now these fuckers are killer. 
they're smaller versions of pro affects. they're pretty cheap too at only 
around 8 dollars for a box of 24 depending on which brand they are. i've had 
numerous nights of fun with these bad boys. i'll give you an example.... one 
night a two friends and i were out and about all night creating mischief and 
wreaking havoc.well some people we had fucked with decided to come fuck with 
us luckily i have a backpack kit filled to the brim with goodies with me on 
these nights. one such goodie was a rocket. we were in a parking lot and 
they came after us so to make a long story short i lit the fucker and we ran 
they ran right next to it as it went off and it was so loud and so bright 
they stopped after becoming disoriented. the police picked them up five 
minutes later and arrested them for trashing shit and setting of fireworks. 
i love it when a plan comes through. but that's not why i'm here. these can 
be used to scare, wake up, or terrorize andy neighborhood in the middle of 
the night. they work extremely well as a decoy for any one who may be after 
you for whatever reason.also in a survival situation these come in handy as 
a replacement for a flare, roman candles also. but whatever you do use 
extreme caution with these they are very dangerous if you aren't a safe 
distance away!!!

it's like i said use your imagination and there are a shit load of other 
fireworks out there but these are my main favorites, they're reliable and 
the most easily purchased and or available in most places. NOW REMEBER 
FIREWORKS ARE ILLEGAL IN SOME PLACES SO POSSESING THEM CAN BE A SERIOUS 
OFFENCE SO PLAY IT SMART. IF THEY'RE ILLEGAL IN YOUR STATE OR TOWN OR 
WHATEVER DON'T SET THEM OFF IN YOUR YARD OR IN A PLACE WHERE YOU'LL GET 
CAUGHT. HELL EVEN IF THEY'RE LEGAL IN YOUR TOWN OR WHATEVER DON'T SET THEM 
OFF IN A PLACE WHERE YOU CAN GET IN SOME DEEP SHIT. USE YOUR HEADS!!!

now i'll show you a few methods to make a time delay for ignition.

the tried and true cig extender: take an ordinary cigarette and smoke it 
down to a point where it'll brun long enough for you to get away to a safe 
area. now depending on the application you can just get the cig lit and then 
go from there or smoke it halfway or whatever but i suggest no more than 
half way. now you take a pin or something similar and poke a hole in the cig 
at the point where the filter paper starts. poke it all the way through. now 
place the fuse into the whole all the way through but be careful not to 
ignite it on accident. this is why i say leave atleast half of a cigarette 
to work with. now place it where you want to and walk away or run or fly i 
don't give a shit just get away. there you go a simple and very affordable 
fuse extension. this coes in handy in buildings or places where you don't 
really have a chance to light, toss, and run. for example we used a cig 
extender to ignite a huge cake(the big boxes that shoot a high number of 
rockets)during an outdoor pep rally our freshman year of college. this gave 
us enough time to strole away back to our dorm and watch from our window.

if you buy your fireworks from a showroom or stand of a reputable dealer you 
will sometimes be able to buy what they call safety fuse. it usually comes 
in ten foot waterproof sections for roughly five to seven dollars. this is 
the same high quality fuse the pros use when they do the big shows on the 
4ht of july or whenever. i'm not exactly sure of the burn rate you'd have to 
discuss that with them but fi you're just using it for fun like i mentioned 
with the example above you should be relatively safe provided you aren't a 
backwoods waterhead retard. now as with any fuse or extender never go by 
what the burn time is said to be. estimate that you'll have less time so you 
can hall ass the fuck out of there. it's better to be safe then to be 
hurt,killed, or arrested.

now there are many hommade fuse ideas on the net but i've never used them 
for the simple fact that they may be wrong or may be dangerous themselves. 
stick with the best known like safety fuses and the cig extension.


OTHER CLASSICS
here's a short list of pranks and such some old school some newer

1.soaping windows
2.eggs
3.ringing dorrbels and running
4.the flaming shit bag(but be carefull with this you don't want to burn the 
house down and get screwed)
5.prank phone calls(there are so many different things you can do with this 
be creative and think of something better than prince albert in a can or 
ordering pizzas to someones house)
6.flour bombs(if you don't know how to make one use a coffe filter some 
flour and water. rubber band or tie the top closed and throw them at things)
7. water balloons(i know, i know that's kids stuff but not when they're 
filled with piss, doe esrtus, or human feces mmmmmm feces)
8.smoke bombs(pretty self explanitory)
9.slingshots/bb guns(this is another grey area because they can be harmfull 
and also illegal use care with these)
10.paintballs/paintball guns(fun fun fun but also sometimes illegal. if you 
can get paintballs but no paintball gun just chuck them at shit or compine 
with a slingshot)
11.markers/spraypaint(tag something or draw and or write on shit but can 
also get you a heafty fine)
12.break something( it's always fun)
13.mailbox smashing(if you've ever seen dazed and confused you know this one 
it's a classic but it's a fedaral offence so it's heavy jail time you're 
facing if you get caught so i don't recommend this)
14.steal flags or other items off people's lawns, porches, etc. then put 
them back after a night or two and watch the looks of confusion on their 
faces
15.pool hopping( always fun on hot summer nights. get some hot chicks to go 
skinny dipping may occur if you're smooth enough. this can be considered 
trespassing so be aware that police may show up)
16.basic vandalism(not recomending it unless you're about 10 years old and 
can get away with it. but seriously i don't recomend it)
17.use some of those fireworks mentioned earlier this is the perfect time 
and place
18.just have a huge party it's always fun to have a rager with a bunch of 
people just have an escape rought if piggies or parents suddenly drop in for 
a visit

i know there's more i could put but i can't think of any thing else right 
now sorry about that guess you're on your own from there.

i'll maybe type another version of this with new ideas added and what not if 
i can think of anything good.

JUST HAVE FUN AND DON'T GET YOURSELF FUCKED OVER

PEACE

version 1.0 (1999)

XxCasperxXxSuicidexX
for the gravediggaz clan





.
