*Movement Under Fire*
      by Boone

When under fire, there are many ways to move to minimize the chance of 
getting your head blown off, but the three types of movement that will be 
described here are the three most commonly used by the U.S. Army.

Low Crawl:

The low crawl offers the best protection but the slowest movement speed. 
This movement should be employed when you do not have to move very quickly 
but you have minimal cover or concealment to shield you from enemy fire.  
With the low crawl you will essentially be hugging the ground.

1. Keep your body as flat as possible.

2. Grab the upper the upper swing swivel (if you have one, otherwise the 
   barrel or forward sight) of your weapon and let the weapon drag behind 
   you.  The hand guard will rest on your forearm and the butt of the 
   weapon will drag the ground. Keep the muzzle of the ground!  The last 
   thing you want is dirt in your barrel!

3. Push both arms forward and pull your right leg forward.  Move forward 
   by pulling with your arms and pushing with your right leg. Continue to 
   push, pull and move.  Switch legs if you get tired. Stay Low!

HIGH CRAWL:

Use the high crawl when you have to move quickly and your route offers 
cover and concealment (or anytime that you can move without being seen by 
your enemy) from enemy fire.

1. Keep your torso off the ground and rest your weight on your forearms 
   and lower legs (or your elbows and knees).

2. Cradle your weapon in your arms.  And keep the muzzle off the ground!

3. Keep your knees behind your buttocks so that your buttocks stay low.

4. Move forward on your right elbow and left knee, then follow with
   your left elbow and right knee.

THE THREE SECOND RUSH:

This is used when you are taking fire (or could be) and you need to cover 
a lot of ground in a short amount of time.  The three second rush is best 
used in unison with the high crawl and low crawl.  This method also works 
well with a buddy, taking turns rushing while the other covers you.

1. Start from the prone position by slowly raising your head and selecting 
   your next position. Lower your head, draw your arms in towards your 
   body, keeping your elbows down and pull your right or left leg forward. 
   Spring to your feet and run to the next position as fast as you can

2. Only stay on your feet for about three seconds (just long enough to
   say to yourself "I'm up, they see me, I'm down.").

   Just before hitting the ground plant both feet, slide your hand to the
   heel of the butt of your weapon and fall forward, breaking your fall
   with the butt of your weapon.

3. Roll to your side place the butt of your weapon in the hallow of
   your shoulder and roll into a firing position.

4. When your rush is completed to a position that provides concealment
   (weeds, bushes, etc.) but no cover, roll or crawl to a new position
   that does before firing.

5. If moving as a member of a buddy team (which you should),
   communicate with each other. One must cover by fire the movement of
   another. One moves as the other watches over for them, giving fire
   towards the enemy to keep the enemy's heads down and limited in their
   ability to fire upon the moving team member(s).
