Page 1.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, etc etc that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault. 




        Not Phrack 64    Issue 1 volume 1  September 22, 2005
Table of contents.                                             Page
Fall..............................................................2                                              
Cell..............................................................4
Cash..............................................................7
Getting Cash......................................................8
Dumpster Diving...................................................9
Digital Rights Management........................................10
Grow Operations..................................................11
War In The Shadows...............................................12





                                  Written by Old Man.



























Page 2.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault.  


                      Understanding the fall

     The next major fall of western civilization Will be a controlled contrived event so the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.  It will be an excuse to replace democracy with Machiavellian dictatorship or worse a theocracy.  And the foundations are being laid today.
Basically the fall with happen because of a lack of oil.  Military vehicles will still run because they can run on bio diesel.  Also bio diesel can be used to make plastic.  And many vegetable oils and animal fats can be made into bio diesel.  Farmers will pay taxes of bio diesel so the military can retain control.  For those who would point out that diesel and bio diesel are useless for planes and helicopters, it works just fine in blimps so the government and the rich will still control the sky's.  Also trains run on diesel so ideally you want to live in a town or city that has a railway, so you can have supply's.  The military, and intelligence agency's will be used to control the towns and city's through fear.  Farming will go back to the horse and ox drawn plows and carts.  There will be less urban sprawl as resources will have to be concentrated.  And as resources are concentrated so will the people. And the people, both city and rural, will not own the plants that they grow as they will be genetic patented plants owned by a rather large agricultural company.  

     The new super powers will be those countries with vast tracks of agricultural land to grow the canola, sunflower, and soy beans needed for bio diesel.  So is it any wonder the the best agricultural lands in the world, south America and central Africa,  are suffering the largest and quickest spreading aids epidemic.  Making them ripe for conquest.  

     All and all, I am glad I am a Canadian because our electricity is based on hydro not coal or oil.  So when the fall hits it won't be as bad as say the United States.  Also as Canadians we have the necessary large area of land and the animals necessary to work it for the bio diesel.  And if necessary, agricultural land not near the train tracks can be used for buffalo and elk farming. which can take the place of fuel intensive feed lot operations.  Such feed lot operations rely heavily on truck transportation.  All in all, we will return to an agricultural based economy out of the need to produce plastics and synthetic fossil fuels.

     




Page 3.

So the lessons are:

1. Learn how to make bio diesel.
2. Live In a town or city with rail service.
3. Buy a car or truck that runs on diesel.
4. Learn how to grow your own food locally.
5. Go with the flow because its easier to organize democracy if the powers that be don't see it coming. 













































Page 4.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault. 

                      Urban Survival Cell Style

     The simple truth, it is not individuals that make it through unrest and anarchy but groups of people working together.  Sharing resources,  tools, and knowledge.  The ninja used groups of ten people per cell; six warriors, one distracter, two arrangers,  one leader who new of others ninja cells.  All; gathered information, trained to kill, and taught potential newcomers.  In addition to this each had special skills that strengthen the group as a whole.

     Now we have modern times.  Yet the same problems arise; criminals breaking into your house, drug dealers selling to your kids, abusive police deliberately breaking the law.  If you don't like the way things are you have two choices; Move to another place where there is no problems, yea right.  Or band together with like minded people to force the scum out.  The first step is to get to know the people around you very well;  neighbors, co workers, teachers, fellow exercisers(karate/tae kwon do, running, etc), classmates, etc, etc.  Get to know them well enough to know who they are, and if they can be trusted.  Then form alliances with those with common interests as you, but different skills. 

     The ten common skill groups are:
     1. Automotive/Mechanical.
     2. Food and water.
     3. Construction.
     4. Chemistry.
     5. Medical.
     6. Martial arts or Exercises.
     7. Hunting/trapping.
     8. Clothing
     9. Metal smithing.
    10. Electronics.

     There are many other skills than these but for modern survival these are the ten most important.

      1. Automotive/Mechanical.

      The Mechanic should be able to fix cars, trucks, lawnmowers, pumps, etc.  Usually knows something about pluming and gas fitting.

       2. Food and water.

      The cook should know how to garden to grow food, how to cook food for eating, how to can, pickle, and freeze food for preservation.  And Page 5. 

how to filter or purify water for drinking.  As a side benefit, Such a person usually can make beer or wine from kits.

       3. Construction.

       The carpenter/masonry knows how to build houses, sheds, root cellars, bunkers,  and fortifications.

        4. Chemistry.

     The chemist is some one with high school, collage, or university level knowledge of chemistry.  Their job is to make or understand the chemicals being used for certain jobs.

      5. Medical.

       The medical person does not have to be a doctor or nurse, but it helps.  Basically the medic knows first aid for breaks, sprains, and wounds.  As well as, knowing what type of medication does what as well as herbal remedies.

       6. Martial arts or Exercise.

       The fitness expert should know about weight training, cardio, martial arts (at least a green belt), flexibility, supplements, and injuries.

       7. Hunting/trapping.

       Rangers usually know how to survive in the wild and if you are moving form location to location they make great scouts. also the ability to catch food in the wild give more flexibility to your survive situation.

       8. Clothing

       The practical ability to sew.  It allows for making and repair of clothing, blankets, and preparation of hides, and fur.

       9. Metal smithing.

       The basic skill of refining ore to metal,  alloying the metal to make it stronger, fixing and making metal objects.  And welding.

       10. Electronics.

        Basically everything from setting up, fixing, and running computers.  Wiring up the house. repairing and making generators, alternators, and motors.  To generating  and storing electricity. 


     Now that you have your cell its time to pool resources and skills. The first thing you want to do is start cross training the ten basic Page 6.

skills so that everyone or almost everyone has the basic skills. Second you want to encourage the development of secondary skills that other members of the group do not have.  I.E. photography, painting, pottery, manual labour, musical instruments, singing, etc etc.  Start non profit clubs so you can raise money, get grants, right off expenses, 

     Next is money, Make sure that everyone knows how to maintain a budget.  Also pool resources such as pooling money for lottery tickets, or buying meat and vegetables in bulk and splitting them up among the members of the cell. Share jobs if you are doing manual labour, many times that type of work can be paid under the table.  Grow, can, pickle, and freeze your cells food to reduce the cost of living.  Dumpster dive for beer bottles, aluminum cans, and just about any thing that can be fixed.  All so, share resources such as computers and Internet connections.  Rent apartments and live together.  The key is to organize so that every one benefits in the cell (group).

Next stage cranking it up a notch.

     Organize a neighborhood watch as a non profit organization.  Cruse around and watch for drug houses, and grow operations.  Turn in the drug users and criminals for cash (crime stoppers).  use the money to buy video camera and video tape to video tape the rich committing crimes.  and turn them into crime stoppers and the media.  This will insure cash flow.  then use the money from crime stoppers to take courses for new skills or resources and tools while you continue your video vigilantism.  Simply make it untenable for the criminals to be there.  

     Next building a safe house.  This is a place where your cell and family members of the cell can get away to if there is major trouble where you are.  Preferably in a small town or wilderness.  Make sure there are food and water set aside.  The yard should be big for two reasons. One, camping outdoors so people have a place to sleep.  Two, so you can grow a garden.  If you know how to hunt and trap there should be a rifle, a shot gun, compound bow, and snare wire.  Every member of the cell should know its location.

     Food to store; potatoes, rice, rolled oats, for carbohydrates. They can be stored at or below room temperature for months.  If you have electricity you can store meat and vegetables in the freezer. otherwise meat will have to be dried, smoked, caned, or salted.  Vegetables and fruits if not frozen should be picked from the garden, or canned, pickled, or dehydrated.  consider a large supply of multivitamins for your cell if hunting and trapping are poor.  also keep sufficient medication and medical supply's at the safe house just in case.  

     Knowledge, learn from others experiences.

       http://www.adtdl.army.mil/
          Click on the link Reimer Digital Library

Page 7.      
  
Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault. 

                 Bush and the hawks economic plan 

	Ever wonder how Bush and company get away with deficit spending putting the U.S. economy in jeopardy.  Simple!  They are not putting anything at risk.  A long time ago currency, money, was tied to some thing solid  like how much gold, silver, platinum, and diamonds/jewels there were in the national treasury/reserve.  Now the currency is tied to how much of other country's currency you have in the treasury/reserve and the world market value of those currencies determines the value of your country's currency.  If your  currency goes down in value in the market.  The country's treasury/reserve spends the foreign currency reserve and  purchases the domestic currency to increase the value of the dollar.  And when the domestic currency is high, the treasury/reserve sell the domestic currency to buy both foreign currency and hard wealth; gold, silver, platinum, titanium, oil.

	So what does that mean to the average citizen of the U.S. or Canada.   It means that U.S. is buying resources from other countries with little bits of green paper on the assumption that they are worth some thing.  Move ahead a few years where all these foreign nations have U.S. money in their  treasuries/reserves and little resources left.  The U.S. deliberately sells its foreign holding of currency to deliberately deface the value of their dollar, dropping the value of the foreign currency to bankrupt states.  Then in the sight of economic ruin in the U.S. the U.S. abandons all worth in the old green paper currency.  And reissues a new dollar based on the hard wealth of its gold, silver, platinum, and oil reserves.  The catch,  currency exchange of old for new will only be done for Americans only and will be anywhere from 10 cents to 5 cents on the old dollar.  meaning if you have 100 dollars of the old currency you would get anywhere from 10 dollars to  5 dollars of the new currency.  Even though this might sound bad for the super rich a 90% lose in value would still leave them quite wealthy.  However they are smart enough to put there money in hard currency and hard wealth already so they will not feel the same great lose of wealth that the middle class and poor will.

	The lesson boys and girls is to put some money in hard currency and hard wealth.  Hard currency is silver dollars or gold coins.  Hard wealth is property, cars, gold rings, jewels etc. etc..  Diamonds are not considered hard wealth because the market for diamonds are restricted by holding huge reserves of gem quality diamonds and only selling a few a year.  This is done to artificially keep prices high. 
 


Page 8.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault. 

                           How to make cash

     Rule one, get a legitimate job.  The government does not usually go after people who pay there taxes.  And it give you something to do.

     Rule two, moon light at a second job.  also makes you more money and gives you something else to do.  If you can not get a second job go on to rule three.
    
     Rule three, start A business.  Just go buy a old used truck and trailer and advertise as a handy man, or manual labor.  Or get a used computer, put Linux on it, and a decent Internet connection and sell web space for business.  Do work both over and under the table.

     Rule four, If you have a crafting ability, use it.  IE bake sales, wood carving, web page design, drawing, painting, sketching, sculpting, playing an instrument.  Do work both over and under the table.

     Rule five, collect.   Scrap metal, beer bottles,  dumpster diving.  

     Rule six, barter.  Labor for food, items for items, 

     Basically there is a whole underground economy and its not all drug money.  For example as guy needs his fence fixed and painted.  It could cost him $50 an hour and $50 to $100 in materials to get a company to do the work.  If he buys the materials himself  And higher you under the table for $25 an hour, he gets the work done and you just made $25 an hour Tax free.      


















Page 9.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault.

                           Dumpster Diving

     Dumpster diving is the art and science of collecting, reusing, and recycling abandon or thrown out items.  Dumpster diving usually is not illegal but garbage dump picking is.  

     What you want to wear when you go dumpster diving is a good pair of work gloves, old jeans, jean jacket, good sturdy thick shoes or boots, and a flashlight.  Why? Because there could be broken glass or worse yet old needles.  

     If the dumpster has a lock or a bio hazard symbol on it don't go near it.

     So what to look for?  beer bottles, pop cans, discarded clothing, computer printouts, broken electronics, organic material for compost.  Basically anything that you can sell, reuse, fix, or use as spare parts.

     Actually if you are looking for beer bottles and pop cans consider going to the bars parking lot around four in the morning when its closed,  There will usually be some beer bottles and beer cans in the lot.  just come in on your bike, not motorcycle, with a bag and put them into the bag.  Shopping centers parking lots also have an abundance of pop cans and the occasional beer bottle.  Just do the collecting either an hour after the store has closed, or three hours before the store opens.  Take the bottles and cans home and sort them.  When you have a lot of them take the bottles to the beer vendor for the deposit.  You can also do this with beer cans if you have the box for them.  If you do not have the beer can box you have to put them in with the rest of the pop cans.

     Why do this? First, it puts extra money in your pocket.  Second, it give you some exercise.  Third, its environmentally friendly. 

     If you come across organic material; old bread, bad fruit and vegetables.  Bag them and put them in your compost pile.  However this does not work if you live in an apartment block.

     Stay Away from trash compacters, you could get killed.

     And remember to clean up the dumpster cloths and your self when your done.




Page 10.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault.

                      Why DRM is a good thing.

     Many people are upset about Microsoft and hardware vender's putting Digital Rights Management, DRM, in the BIOS, driver, and operating system.  Basically DRM is software that prevents you from copying your music or dvd or operating system software to the computer or another disc.  So how can this be good.  Simple, Linux does not have DMR software in it.  So if you uses a Linux system you can download the file/files in question, alter the data that triggers the DRM, and then burn to disc.  In the end it will mean more people using Linux than Microsoft. 



































Page 11.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault.

                  How to spot a grow operation.

     Grow houses are a common occurrence now.  And a lot of the dope grown goes to the US.  Around 4 billion dollars is flowing into British Columbia, and 2.4 billion dollars into Manitoba.  So why would I want to shut that down.  Simply put, that money is going into Asian gangs and biker gangs pockets, not the old mom and pop grow operations that they used to have. And quite frankly they are spreading weed use into the young teenage population.  And then getting them to use harder drugs.  How do they pay for this drug habit.  Theft, drug dealing themselves, or worst sex.  If it was up to me I would legalize weed.  It could be taxed and farmers would have a valuable cash crop.  But for now, until its legalized effort should be put into shutting down the Asians and biker gangs grow operations.  

1.In winter look at the houses roof and gable exhaust vents.  If they are heavily encrusted with ice then the odds are there are a lot of plants growing in the house.  But that still does not mean that its weed.
2.If the people living there do not leave very often, or only go out at night.
3.If there is heavy traffic to the house late at night 2:00 am to 6:00 am.
4.If the windows are covered with cardboard or  aluminum foil.
5.If they use excessive amounts of electricity.
6.If they have excessive amounts of fertilizer.

     If one or two of these factors are present it might or might not be a grow op.  But if several of these factors are present then there is a good chance that its a grow op.  If there are several factor s present call crime stoppers from a pay phone, find out how to collect your $2000 dollars, and then give them the house address.  Kick back and wait for the drug bust on the news.













Page 12.

Disclaimer:

I do not assume responsibility for what you do.  If you injure yourself or others for example broken leg or sprained ankle or whiplash, that is your fault. If you commit crime for example breaking and entering, computer trespass, etc etc it is your fault.

                        The war in the shadows.

     If you read the old text files on the Internet they talk of BBS, bulletin board systems.  And that no one uses them any more because all you need is Linux and a decent Internet connection to act as a chat, web, and email server.  The truth is that they are still out there, all it takes is old hardware bought off of EBAY to set one up.  With people logging on and trading information.  They do not get bothered by the government because these people pay their bills.  The problem is the information that they are trading.  Child Rapist are sharing stories, pictures, social engineering techniques, and hunting grounds.  Its time to find these BBS and report them to crime stoppers.  The problem is to prove that its a Child Rape board is you have to hack your way into it (illegal).   Also most of these boards are out side of the country.  Any ways, give the account to crime stoppers to log into.  Then and only if the cop is not on the take is there a possibility of catching and shutting down these boards.  And you just make $2000 dollars to boot.