Starting down the path to hacking...

A short how-to thingy by Kuso


**Disclaimer**

<insert legal stuff here>
Basically, use your own judgement, and don't blame me for shit you do wrong.

Anyways..



I am not the world's best hacker. Hell, I just started out about a year ago. But I have learned
quite alot(I guess), and am willing to share my knowledge with anyone who asks :)

Now, this is my first text. There's no table of contents. Fuck, it's not even that long. But still,
it might help.


Begining...

So you wanna become a hacker. Cool. Also, please go out an KILL YOURSELF if your looking to become a
"1337 h4x0r". Please. For the sake of the world kill yourself.

Anyhoo, back to the hacking stuff. Tip number one:

READ. Read as much as you can. i've stayed up till dawn reading text files, gone to school and read
them during class on my iPaq, and slept on the bus and at lunch. I also have no life. And I don't
suggest doing that. But trust me, read. That's the best place for you to get your information.
Unless, of course, you happen to find a teacher to teach you stuff, but that RARELY happens.  Trust
me. I'm lucky enough to know someone in real life that can provide me with software. But really, 
ALWAYS be willing to learn something new. 

Number two:

ALWAYS be willing to share what you know, and listen to what others know. Information is power. True.
But if nobody else has power/info, what good is it that your the only one that knows that the pentagon's
e-mail server #3's IP address is 843.544.157.45 has an un-monitored port number 453 and that it 
accepts telnet connections with the password 'monica'? That doesn't really work. Acctually, it might. 
Figure it out.

Number three:

Don't be stupid. Don't get caught. If the risks look greater than the reward, use your better judgement.
I don't know what your after in hacking a system, but sometimes it just isn't worth it.

Number four:

NEVER EVER FUCKING EVER HACK THE GOVERNMENT. You WILL be caught. You WILL be prosecuted. You WILL MOST
LIKELY GO TO JAIL FOR A LOOONG TIME. Again, when in doubt, refer back to number three. I know someone who 
got busted. Big time.

Number five:

Don't hate microsoft. Think about it. Everyone's like 'M$ sux!' and stuff. But if you think, what do ALOT of 
servers run on? NT. What's easier than Sun systems to break into? NT. Chances are that it's for the better alot
of the time.

Number six:

Use ettiquite. Don't talk like a lamer. E.g.:

Hey, can u learn me to hack?
p13453 134n m3 t0 b3 4 h4xo|2!

I immediatly look down on those people. Scum. That's what they are. Script kiddies. Looking for a cheap way around
everything. I've gotten e-mail asking me how to hack hotmail. I tell them to either fuck a goat, or something
like that pentagon thing; ie total, absolute, complete and utter bullshit.

Fuck, my wrists hurt...

Okay, I'm done. Hope that helps (yeah, right.)




Have fun.

--Kuso
kuso@gis.net
ICQ: 38231538
AIM: Monkikuso


Also, telnet to english.gh0st.net on port 23. Login as 'bbs'. i'm on there alot :)