Forest Bases II

So Now you've got your base...but you spot another structure in the bushes. What do you do? Why, steal it, of course. 


Note Before You Begin

So, if you've read the previous "Forest Bases" file, then you should have a base already constructed in the forest somewhere. I really suggest you read it before reading this one, so you'll have a starting point. Anyway, on with the file. 

Sighting

So, you've built at least one base in the forest. If you're a resourceful fellow, you may have even built a small network of them by now. In both or either case/s, you've got someplace to stash all your plans, supplies and other things for your various exploits. It's therefore reasonable to assume, that someone else has done the same thing. So, one day you're walking though the bush, heading to your remote outpost, when you spot what appears to be another base just over a ridge of bushes. The first thing you do, is do NOT approach this thing. Hide. Yes, you heard me, hide. You have no idea if what's in there. Hell, for all you know the whole damn area could be booby trapped. Also, whoever built this base could quite possibly still be in there. But for right now, this second, you're looking out for your own safety. You can go exploring and play Captain Kirk in a few minutes. 

Treading Lightly

>From your concealed position, take a closer look inside the base. Be absolutley still; any movement could alarm the base's occupants (if there are any) that you're watching them. Also, this allows you to listen carefully for movement as well. Humans make distinctly different sounds when they move, you just have to listen carefully. Assuming you don't hear/see anybody, the real danger is over. Humans can generally cause alot more harm to each other than booby traps do. Oh, right...you might want to check for booby traps now too. Triplines are generally the most common thing used, so be sure to look for them EVERYWHERE. Move slowly and carefully, and try to touch or move as little things as possible. A tripline could be attached to a tree branch, a twig stuck in the ground, or even a blade of grass. (yes, I have seen this done). Triplines are not the only danger; there are others to look for too, like the Bog Trap. The Bog Trap consists of a large hole (or in extreme cases an entire pond) filled with water and covered with grass, branches, twigs and leaves. This gives the illusion of dry land when there obviously isn't any. These can be spotted but you have to look closely. Be weary around areas where there are alot of leaves and twigs that cover the ground beneath them. Normally, people simply stop covering the ground after they've covered the trap, so if you see what appears to be an "edge" of leaves/twigs, be sure not to step in it. Pick up a few small rocks and throw them at it. If you hear a "thud" rather than a "ker-plunk" then it should be safe to walk on. People have also been known to cover sharp, pointy sticks with leaves and such. these things are a REAL bitch to step on, so watch your step! From time to time, take a look upwards into the tree. Seeing as how you're most likely an urban-area forest, the leaf coverings on the trees can never completely block out the sunlight. If you see a large, dark patch that completely blocks the sun, stand clear of it. These are normally large bundles of branches or rocks that are designed to drop at the touch of a tripwire. Sometimes, these can drop without warning, so they are always a danger. 

Where No Man Has Gone Before...

...Into that base, that is. You've managed to avoid all the booby traps that have been set out for you, and now it's time to reap the rewards of your discovery. First things first: check the actual base. Some people are actually stupid enough to just leave their supplies sitting in their base, wrapped in some plastic bags. Take a stick and poke it, first. (we've found some weird stuff wrapped in these bags, everything from teddy bears to a pound of cabbage). If it's mushy, leave it alone, take my word for it. If you see any wooden crates, pry them open and look inside. there's not much else I can tell you about exploring IN the base, just use your own judgement and take whatever you like. Now, if you've read the first "Forest Bases" file, then you'll know that you can store things in holes in the ground, covered over with planks of wood. These planks, are in turn covered with dirt and other things on the forest floor. Take a long stick, and just start poking around the area near the base. if you hear a "clank" rather than a "thud" then you've hit paydirt. Most of the time, these caches aren't buried very deep, so you won't even need a shovel. just kick the dirt aside and see what's in the hole. Again, use your best judgement on what to take. 

Completeing the Raid

Now that you've sucked the place dry, there are a few things you can do to tie up your unexpected raid. Firstly, you can torch the place. If you do this, make sure you've taken all the explosives out of the base, if there are any. Also, don't do this on an exceptionally dry day, you don't want to burn down the whole bloody forest. One thing I've always liked to do is just rip the base apart, and take the material back to my base and build onto it. If you know who's base you've raided, (which is unlikely) then you've just severly weakened them and strengthened yourself. Pretty sweet deal, if you ask me. 

Conclusion

Keep your eyes open when you're in the forest. There are always unexpected things to be found in there. Bases can also come in all shapes and sizes, some are even inside caves. At school (since this file is generally intended for high school to collage grade students) keep your ears open. Listen for rumors about people looking for a fireworks stash, or talking about a meeting in a certain part of the forest. I know it sounds idiotic, but I've found more than a few interesting things by listening in this way. Stumbling across a base is a wonderful discovery; but carefully planning and executing a raid on one is even better. However, this is a subject for another textfile, specifically Forest Bases III. Keep a look out, cause' it's coming soon. 



12:06 AM 8/12/02 By Galvaplex & The Matrix Templars 



