Forest Bases

Ever plan an attack on on of your enemies' homes? Ever get caught because your parents found your plans and supplies stashed under your bed? Then you, my friend, need a base in the forest. 

In The Begining

For the rest of this file, I'm going to have to assume that you indeed do have a forest area close to your home, or your enemies' homes. Firstly, you need to decide on a good location for your base. Most forests in suburban areas already have paths running through them, either made by the municipality or the local high school stoners. Since you will you will use your base as an operation post for your shady operations, you won't want people to run into the bloody thing in the middle of a path. You'll want easy access to your base, but make sure it's alittle off the beaten track. If you're lucky enough to find an abandoned path, then use it. Secondly, you need to make sure your base's position is defensable. If an operation goes wrong, and you need to retreat to your base, you'll want to make sure it's not at the bottom of a hill where your enemies can simply bombard you. If you can find a high hill will lots of trees surrounding it, then build your base atop that hill. Leave at least two paths/enterances for yourself, but hide these well. Lastly, You need a place in your base to hide your supplies, whatever they may be. Simply dig a hole, and line that hole with a few plastic bags. Dump your supplies in the hole, and put a small sheet of plywood or a large plastic lid over the hole. Now, cover that with dirt, leaves and twigs, and put a large stick in the ground marking the hole. It's pretty simple, but even the most enterprising stoner will never think to check the ground for your stuff. Not only that, but most of your enemies probably won't think to look there either. Depending on how many supplies you have to hide, you can make several holes; but be sure to space them far apart. Now as for the actual construction of your base...that's entirely up to you. If there's a construction site nearby, then you've got plenty of building supplies and tools just ready and waiting for you to...um...borrow. If you don't have something like that at your disposal, then grab a hammer and some nails from your garage, and use what you've got in the forest. Ususally, there are plenty of dead trees and branches for you to hammer together in a shack of some sort. Grabbing some plastic sheeting to put over something like that would be a perfect hide out. Another idea is to get a base already built for you: A stoner hut. These things are normally built out of scraps of wood that stoners find...where they find them, I have no idea. In any case, they're normally well built (for their purposes), and with the help of a few anarchist buddies of yours, can be relatively easily dragged to a new location of your choosing. 

After You've Built Your Base

Once you've built your base of operations, you can now store things without anyone finding them, and you also have a hideout wher eyou can wait until late at night to begin your carefully plotted plans. However, as your scheming progresses, you may find that having one base may not be enough. Therefore you build other bases in stratigic locations throughout the forest. You may wish to place one relatively near each entrance to the forest, and others deep within. If one of your targets (be it a home or a school or any other kind of building) is near the forest, you can build a base there, so you can simply bombard your target with whatever objects/liquids you desire, from the safety of your base. By building a small network of these outposts, you can be assured that the entirety of your plans or supplies will never be found, and you also have more options if you are being pursued. Whatever the case my be, a forest base is a great addition to the suburban anarchist's aresnal.



DISCLAIMER: I take no responsiblity for any of the actions that you take from reading this file. 


12:39 AM 8/12/02 By Galvaplex & The Matrix Templars

