How to Make Plastic/Napalm Explosive

Written By: ZERO

October 15 2001

zerotextspy@yahoo.com

File #3



I am going to explain a Plastic Explosive that is not exactly Plastic, but acts as sort of a 
Napalm. You will understand why once you read the file.


Materials/Ingredients:

1 Part Gasoline
1/2 Part Oil
1 Part Styrofoam
2 Pots that you may screw up, one must be deep
1 spoon
1 Thermometer


How to Make it


First you need to Melt the Styrofoam in one of the pots. Keep a close eye on this, you don't want 
it to get to hot. If it gets to hot, then it will start turning brown or black, and could flame 
up. But if you keep it at low temperature, then you should be fine. After you have somewhat 
liquified the styrofoam, take it off, and let it cool to a thick viscosity. Now you must add 
these three chemicals in order. Pour the styrofoam in the second pot, then the oil, then the 
gasoline. Be sure to stir this mixture with your spoon to make it mix together. When mixing the 
three ingredients together, be sure not to mix them near any flames, or heat. Also be sure that 
you are mixing these ingredients in the deep pot. Now,stick your thermometer in the mixture, and 
let the mixture cool to about 88 degrees farenheit. Now you may mold the mixture however you 
want. I wouldn't do it with your bare hands. So you should have a mold near by. Or you could just 
leave it in the pot, and scrape it out whenever it is hard.



How to Use It


You Can throw it against something hard. This does not work that much, but sometimes it does. And 
if it does, I wouldn't want to be the one throwing it.


It can be Wired for an Electrical Charge (recomended). Just Take two copper wires about 50 feet 
long (each), and stick one end of each of them into the explosive. Now stretch the wires out as 
far as they can go, and connect them to a car battery. This will blow it up every time.


also, you could use a fuse to set it off. Just stick your Fuse in the explosive, and light it. 
Personally, I do not trust fuses at all. They can be tricky sometimes.


You can add an electic time detonater. This gives an advantage. You may set it for however many 
hours, or minutes to go off.




