			Making Impovised Proximity Mines				
			       By:MassExodus


All of these Files are for informational purposes only and any trouble 
That may result from reading this file is your sole responsiblity and the 
author or his ISP may be held liable for any legal trouble that may ensue.
Devices such as this can cause serious harm.			

	Have you ever played any of the James Bond series games or perhaps 
watched one of the films and wondered how cool it would be to have some of his 
little toys? While if you have, this article is for you because today i will be 
teaching you how to make an Proximity Mine.  

What you'll need.:

1 Motion Sensor\alarm Easily found at any local Radio Shack. now this will run you about 
$9.99 But don't cheap out.(you'll be unpleasently suprised if it blows up in your face because of bad workmanship,)

Some Gunpowder-The amount varies with how big you want the effect to be.(Taken from shells
or perhaps fireworks. if you don't have access to plain)

1 Glass Test tube(regular size)-if you can't find a glass test tube this can be substituted 
With any container able to hold the amount of gun powder you need. i just like the glass 
because its pretty.

A length or wire or several alligator clips.

1 Igniter.(These can be found in hobby shops that sell rocketry supplies, Now make sure you 
only buy the one time ignitors the kind that are like to little metal pins and a strip of
paper. and not the mechanical type)


Now that you have the supplys Lets move onto the Fun part.

---:::-Construction

The first thing you should do is play with the motion sensor to make sure it works right 
and to figure out how it works. 

You need to open the case without damaging ANYTHING!!! and find where the speaker 
that the alarm uses when it goes off. If your not sure which peice is the speaker you 
shouldnt be doing this...

Now that you've found the speaker. Look at it and the wires that connect it to the Device.
There will be two wires now Take Something and make a good cut at the end of the wires about 
1\4 of an inch to where they connect to the speaker.Now that you've disconnected the speaker
take this wire and strip a bit From the ends so you have about 1\4 inch bare wire at the end.

Find a way to get some of the wire on the outside of the case.(Drill or cut a hole if you have to.)
The case doesnt really matter anyway. Now reclose the case.

Now if you have the iq of a houseplant and have done this correctly it shoud look like this.

  I     I <-Wires
  I     I
----------- <-Case

Take some alligator clips and clip them to each of the little metal prongs on the bottom of 
The ignitor(one Clip for Each Duh.!) and clip the last two clips onto the two exposed wires 
on the outside of the case.
 
It should look like this:          --------------
                                   [ ignitor     ]
                                   --------------
                                   I             I
           			hhHHH            HHHhh
                               I		      I
                                I 		     I
                               I                     I
                                hhHHH            HHHhh
                                    I            I
                                    I            I	
                                    -------------- <--Case

Thats your Proximity Detonator.    

Now it will probubly be a good idea to check the functionality of your device by using 
only a ignitor and No explosive(Just to be Sure). 

Now just Put the Ignitor into you container(with the Explosive) and close the lid\cap\whatever, just make 
sure that the wires don't get severed!, and you have made your very own proximity mine.
When your ready to use Just attach the Device to you container. and arm it like you would if 
it were still an alarm. 


How it works.

Well supposing you didn't get the kind of alarm that beeps before its active. once the 
motion detector is set off. The electircal charge Which would normaly make the alarm sound
is sent to The ignitor and that sets off the boom. don't get hurt.


-----MassExodus------]-{