			Making Impovised Proximity Mines
			       By:MassExodus


All of these Files are for informational purposes only and any trouble
That may result from reading this file is your sole responsiblity and the
author or his ISP may be held liable for any legal trouble that may insue.
Devices such as this can cause serious harm.

	Have you ever played any of the James Bond series games or perhaps
Watched one of the films and wondered how cool it would be to have some of 
his
little Toys? While if you have this atricle is for you because today i will 
be
teaching you how to make an Proximity Mine.

What you'll need is this.:

1 Motion Sensor\alarm Easily found at any local Radio Shack. now this will 
run you about
$9.99 But don't Cheap out.(you'll be unpleasently suprised if it blows up in 
your face because
of Shaudy Workmanship,)

Some Gunpowder-The Amount Varies with how big you want the Effect to 
be.(Taken from Shells
Or perhaps Fireworks. if you don't have access to Plain)

1 Glass Test tube(regual size)-if you can find a glass test tube this can be 
substituted
With any container Able to hold the amount of gun powder you need. i just 
like the glass
because its pretty.

A length or wire or Several alligator Clips.

1 Igniter.(these Can be found in hobby shops that Sell Rocketry Supplies, 
Now make sure you
Only buy the one time ignitors The Kind that are like to little metal pins 
and a strip of
paper. and not the mechanical type)


Now that you have the supplys Lets move onto the Fun part.

---:::-Construction

First Thing you should do is play with the motion sensor to make sure it 
works right
and to figure out how it works.

You need to Open the Case without damaging ANYTHING!!! and find where the 
Speaker
That the Alarm uses when it Goes Off. If your not sure which peice is the 
Speaker you
Shouldnt be doing this...

Now That you've Found The Speaker. Look at it and the Wires that connect it 
to the Device.
There will be two wires now Take Something and make a good cut at the end of 
the wires about
1\4 of an inch to where they connect to the speaker.Now that you've 
Disconnected the Speaker
Take this wire and Strip a bit From the ends so you have about 1\4 inch bare 
wire at the end.

Find a way to Get Some of the wire on the outside of the Case.(drill or Cut 
a hole if you have to.)
The case Doesnt really matter anyway. Now Reclose the Case.

Now if You have the iq of a houseplant and have done this correctly it shoud 
look like this.

  I     I <-Wires
  I     I
----------- <-Case

Take Some Alligator Clips and Clip them to Each of the little metal Prongs 
on the bottom of
The ignitor(one Clip for Each Duh.!) and Clip the last two Clips onto the 
two exposed wires
on the Outside of the Case.

It should look like this:          --------------
                                   [ ignitor     ]
                                   --------------
                                   I             I
           			hhHHH            HHHhh
                               I		      I
                                I 		     I
                               I                     I
                                hhHHH            HHHhh
                                    I            I
                                    I            I
                                    -------------- <--Case

Thats your Proximity Detonator.

Now it will probubly be a good idea to check the functionality of your 
device by using
only a ignitor and No explosive(Just to be Sure).

Now just Put the Ignitor into you Container(with the Explosive) and Close 
the lid\cap\whatever, just make
sure that the wires don't get severed!, and you have made your very own 
proximity mine.
When your ready to use Just attach the Device to you container. and arm it 
like you would if
it were still an alarm.


How it works.

Well Supposing you didn't get the kind of alarm that beeps before its 
active. Once the
Motion Detector is set off. The electircal Charge Which would normaly make 
the Alarm Sound
Is sent to The ignitor and that Sets off The Boom. Don't Get Hurt.


-----MassExodus------]-{
