Undertakement: The Ruzsland Economy
by ruzz
For distribution to homesteaders.
------------------------------------------

        When writing Survival Strongholds and Surrounding Lands, I showed
the world where the Ruzsland industry stands. Basically a small,
efficient, enviornmentally friendly shack. I use Ruzsland industry as a
model because it is easy for begining and advanced homesteaders,
survivalists, and self-sufficiectists to get a start or check progress.  
Technology and tools are made in Lairs. Now how does the economy work?
What is an economy by and for essentially 1 person like? Why do you ask
me, I'm not the expert on everything Ruzsland! I'm the absolute authority.
As my more perceptive readers have probably just figured, I make it up as
I go. But how does it work?

        Simple really. It is basically the developement of a tool, project
or technology to fill a need or want. That is how it is like most
economies. The difference is supply and demand is based on a
hunter/gatherer populace. Thus it concentrates mostly on tools and weapons
and trade is limited. Time and calories are the most precious commodities.  
Since there are no permament inhabitants breakthrus come in leaps and
bounds. Thats because other establishments demand tribute from them, for
instance school, chores, work and other totalinarianist rubbish for the
small of mind.

        Thus Ruzsland is a limited anarchy. The paradox is that it is
ruled by a dictator. Now that should make no sense. But since there is 1
person (lil' ol' me) and he is dictator of the work force which is himself
and he can do whatever he wants (thus anarchy) but must give tribute to
higher powers it all evens out. Whew. Thats how my model works.  If you
can be total anarchy under a totaliarian government -with no need to pay
tribute- may I be the first to ofer you an alliance! (And a salute!)

        So with so much exports (tribute) one would think Ruzsland imports
alot. Not so. Duuuhhh self suffiency! This is you aaauuuu auuu auuuugh dya
dyah mk mk mk nyar nyar. Nevertheless, some things cant be manyoofaktured
(made in lairs by 1 person) in Ruzsland or on your turf very easily.
Metals, plastics and electronics for instance. So they are substituted, or
salvaged. Most things, save basic tools, should be bio-constructable and
bio-degradeable, like wood or mud. The transportation system of 1 man
economies depends greatly on necesity. Most people are content with a
cowpath. But if alot of large things are imported or processed in the
lair, like trees or something, a better trail is needed. Care must be
taken, of coarse, to not expose the lair.  Cause then someone will steal
your stuff and youll have to move and build a new trail or improve
defenses, by setting nasty traps for instance. I covered trail upgrades in
general in Survival Shelters and Surrounding Lands and dont feel like
repeating myself.

        So basicly one just makes their own things whenever they
want/need. They can work as long and hard as they want. When they reach
their technological limits they must import it. Be careful not to use
surrounding shelter for resources too much though! That hedgerow serves a
better purpose by concealing your lair than upgrading it.

        Looking to the future one should look to streamline their
opperation. Upgrade, upgrade UPGRADE! Look into power tools. Look into
power sources. Try making a stove or furnace for heat and metalworking.  
Look into generators. Solar electricity. Masonry, plumbing, brick laying,
agriculture, forrestry (for resources and defense) basic mechanics, even
medicine. Anyone of these could go into great detail and be a great boon.
However dont get to reliant on them or youll lose self sufficiency and
jeopradize the one man economy. I'm leary of the so called 'survivalist
teams', you just cant trust most people. The best way would be to transfer
to a bartering system. That way need and want decide how much something is
worth instead of a silly set price. For instance someone has a grinder and
you need to touch up some tools, you could sharpen your tools and maybe
fix.  
--

