Sawed Off Shotguns

By: Zero

March, 27, 2003

---
Sawed off shotguns are very effective in home protection. In this file I will mostly cover the 
Mossberg 500 12 Gauge Pump Shotgun, and the New England 20 Gauge Break Away Single Shot Shotgun. 
This file will mostly focus on making your shotgun look mean, dirty, and evil. While also making 
the spread pattern way more than it should be.

What a Sawed Off Shotgun does:

With Shotguns, longer barrels keep the Shot together for a longer period of time. Every so many 
feet, the pellets spread apart. So, say you shoot a regular shotgun at a piece of metal 5 feet 
away, it will blow a direct hole in the metal. This is because the pellets (shot) are together. 
So, walk back about 50 feet away from the piece of metal, and shoot the same place, Its not going 
to make the same hole, its going to leave little tiny holes all around it..See?

With a shorter barrel, the pellets spread apart much faster, this means that if you are standing 
say 10 feet away from the piece of metal, the pellets will spread the same as it would 50 feet 
away with a regular shotgun.

What is the advantage? Home Protection. Example: You are in bed, you hear a robber. Its 3am, and 
you can barely see because of the Sand Man. You grab your sawed off shotgun go into the living 
room, its compleatly dark you see minor movement, and you shoot the gun, but the gun barrel is 
aimed 5 feet away from him. Doesn't matter, you hit him anyway.

----
Mossberg 500 12 Gauge Pump Action Shotgun

You need a:

Mossberg 500 ($180)
Heat Shield ($18)
Pistol Grip ($10)

Go buy your Mossberg 500..When you get home, take the barrel off, and take out the wooden plug 
that is in the Magazine, then throw it away, it is useless. Taking out the wooden plug may appear hard, 
but is actually very simple, just start sticking shotgun shells in the gun, and the plug will pop out the 
top.

You should then follow the instructions provided in your gun manual, and disassemble the gun, and 
take the magazine out, and take the Forearm off. Once you have the Forearm off, hold it in your 
hand, and cut it from the top with a hacksaw to fit your hand. This will shorten the forearm to 
make it lighter, smaller, and easier to handle. 

Put your shotgun back together with the cut forearm. put the barrel back on. Now, where your 
magazine ends, this is where you are going to saw off your barrel. while your barrel is on the 
shotgun, mark it with chalk, or with the hacksaw. Now take your barrel off, put it in a vice or 
something, and saw it off compleatly Flush. When you are done sawing off the barrel, sand down 
the end of it, especially the inside as much as you can. Make sure that it is perfectly smooth. 
Put the barrel back on. 

Now take your Heat Shield, and attach it to your shotgun.

Next, take a screwdriver, and take the buttplate off of the back of the stock. Then get your 
socket, and rachet set out, with a long extension, and try to get the correct fitting (1/2 inch). 
Unbolt the stock. When the stock is off, bolt your new Pistol Grip onto the gun. Sorry, you can't 
saw off new Mossberg Stocks, the bolt is pretty long, so if you tried to saw it to a pistol grip, 
you would just end up cutting through the bolt, then everything would just fall apart. 

THERE, your done with your new Sawed Off Scatter Gun. Easy huh? oh, by the way, now that you have 
done it, I guess I should tell you its a federal offense to own a shotgun with the barrel length 
shorter than 18.5 inches. Maybe I should have told you that before you actually did it. eh huh 
huh huh huh....Dumbass...eh huh huh huh
----------------
New England 20 Gauge

You need a:
New England 20 Gauge Single Shot Shotgun ($90)
A bolt that will fit the stock (50 cents to $1.00)

This is just way too simple. The New England 20 Gauge Break Away Single Shot Shotgun only 
requires two things really: Sawing, and bolting.

Take your 20 Gauge, and mark the barrel where the wood grip on the bottom ends. Take a 
screwdriver, unscrew the grip, break the shotgun, and pull it apart. Saw the barrel where you 
marked it, and sandpaper it up real good. Make sure you leave it VERY smooth! Put it back 
together.

Now, unbolt the stock, goto the nearest hardware store, and get a bolt with the exact same size 
and threads, but get it shorter. Now, go back home, saw your stock to a pistol grip, and put the 
new bolt in it. You should now sandpaper the edges to make is smoother on your hand.

Now you have this problem of getting the bolt nice and tight. The pistol grip will be somewhat loose, 
so you need to put as much time as you can into getting it tight. So, simply use some JB Weld, and 
put it underneath where the pistolgrip, and the shotgun go together. JB Weld is very good stuff to 
work with, because as it dries, it turns into a puddy first. So you are able to make it look nice. 
Once it it nice and tight, you may as well JB weld over where the bolt is sticking out. Simply 
place a bunch of JB Weld over the bolt, and form it to a roundish shape. It's pretty easy to do, 
and looks nice in the end. 

If you tighten the bolt too much, then it will get under the Hammer of the gun, so the hammer 
will not cock back all the way. Which is very dangerous, so dry fire it, and make sure that the 
hammer cocks back, and sticks. If the bolt is too tight, the hammer will not lock back, which is 
no problem, it just means you need to loosen the bolt, or get a smaller bolt. The dangerous part 
about this is: If you do not test it, then you will be outside getting ready to shoot, and when 
you cock the hammer back, since it won't lock, it will slip out of your thumb and fire without 
you pulling the trigger.
