

					Things Not to Do in School.
					        By:MassExodus
  



1. Don't go into your schools bathroom Open the Metal Container which holds the Brown paper Towels, 
Set the bunch on fire and throw them out the bathroom window.

2. Make sure not to purchase a Quartz crystal from you local occult store or somewhere
that deals such stones, and Then procede To Engrave Filthy Words into the bathroom mirror because
remember that Quartz cuts glass and such words could never be removed.

3. Never Take a Carton Of chocolate milk and open in only part way, then tip
 it over the Top stair of a staircase on its side so that a stream of milk would run down 
the stairs and leave an awfull mess.

4. Try not to take a random text book home with you, and seriously disfigure it to the 
point where its no longer usefull as a learning aid., and then return it to school the next day.,
 because that would be vandalism and thats bad.!

5. An awfull thing to do would be to wait untill your school is serving a potent smelling
food such as Fish sticks and Dispose of them in your schools Heater or perhaps in desks or somewhere
where they won't be found normaly. Doing this would lead to horrible "mystery" smells.

6. You should never., Seperate The inside and outside parts of any elevator door by pushing the outer
most part of the door open as the door begins to close, this would cause both parts to seperate exposing 
the internal mechanics of the door, becasue someone could Wire the door to stay permanently open or closed 
or just kill the door by simply changing the Connected wires between the difernet terminals.

7. When your School serves meat of any kind you should not:
Hide it in varios places around the school.
Pick some kid at random and throw it at him.
Throw it as hard as possible at any school walls.
Leave it to bake in the sun outside on a windowsill.
hide it in or around the teachers desk.
Toss it into a car with its sunroof\windows open on a sunny day.
Hide it in another students back pack or other belonging.

8. Something no one shoud ever do is to take an amount of crisco of something similar to school
and Put it on door knobs, hand supports, and railings and then watch the faces of people who put there hands into.

9. Never use super Glue to glue pencils, pens or textbooks to bathroom walls or low ceilings.

10. Don't remove the toilet paper From the locking holders in the bathroom stalls and while Holding
he end throw the roll out the batroom window or down the hall or perhaps over the railing of a staircase.

11. Bringing a universal remote to school and consealing it in your backpack on a day when the class is about to watch
a movie or a presentation, then using it to disrupt the electroincs Would be disturbing to the class.

12. Using the NETSEND dos command to send a message to every computer in the building would be a very disruptive to 
the working enviroment of the school.
