This is basically just a compilation of things that I've discovered while 
wandering around the computers system at my school.  My school runs a 
program called Schoolvista.  It is designed to give a nice GUI that keeps 
kids out of Windows(bwuahahaha).  Well, I must say it doesn't do a very good 
job of it.  So I'll start out with a little bit of info on how to get into 
the windows explorer and then give you some fun stuff to do there...

-the F1 option
	This is the first way that I found to get into the "C:\" drive.  First you 
hit the F1 key, while in the main schoolvista "classroom".   Then go to 
File>>Open.  The open dialog box will pop open.   type C:\ into the text box 
at the bottom and hit enter.  You are now in the C drive.  To open an 
explorer window, right click on any folder and go to either explore or open. 
  This may cause some error thing to pop up click ok and the explorer window 
will pop up.  Have fun! :P

-the hyperlink option
	Another way to get to the C drive is to open any program that lets you make 
hyperlinks.  I like word for this, because it's real easy, but any program 
should work.  Simply type some sort of text, anything you want and then 
highlight it and right click it(or use CTRL-K if in word).  Go to the option 
that says hyperlink and make a hyperlink to C:\.  Now when you click the 
text it will open up an explorer window.

There are lots of other ways into the C drive, but I'll leave those for you 
to find.

Now I want to tell  you some cool things that I've found on my schools 
computers.  Some may not be on yours, while others may, so try some.

-winpopup
	If you can get the id of another user at the school, open winpopup and have 
some fun sending the messages without them having a clue where they're 
coming from.

-logout.exe
	This program does exactly what it's name is.  Logs you out.  Why is this 
cool?  Well, although you are logged of the schoolvista server, the schools 
internet server is still active.  You can now download whatever you want 
without any trace.

-DOS Mode for games
	This program gives you a nice DOS window to have lots of fun with.  If you 
don't know what to do at a DOS prompt, learn!  It's lots of fun to play 
around in.

There are lots of other cool things you can do including changing your 
password, and of course you can use this as a launch point to crack some of 
your schools password and username files.  I do not claim responsibility for 
any actions taken after reading this.

-lghtngclp

lghtngclp@hotmail.com
