How to scrap with style by Cin

--------
Striking
--------

Although  punching  somebody in  an  uppercut  fashion  in  the chin  or  stomach  may  be
very  strong  and  the  most  instinctive  way  to  attack someone,  it's  not  always the
most effective.

Using your tricep to  strike is much faster  and  efficient, it can be  repeated  twice as
 many times as a bicep strike, although not as powerful.

It  always  works too.  If someone attacks you with  his right hand, a round  house  punch
(completely  lame),  you  block  it  with  your   right  (and  take  a  hold  of  it  with
your left)  which  allows you to do a  multitude of things. Strike with the  back of  your
fist  at the  top  with  your  knuckles as  one  movement. There should be no swing,  just
a noise  -your fist planting  a  sweet  one on their face. You can also pull them into  it
(just incase they try to avoid it) using their right hand you have hold of.

Striking  like  this  always  works. Because  when  you  strike  someone in  this fashion,
your fist is left next to their  head and  only has to  move a couple inches to  strike in
the  opposite  direction  pushing  them  back with  a  bicep punch.  -But only  do that if
your other  hand  isn't free. The best position you  can be in  is right in front of them.
So  they  have  no  room  to  do  their lame  round  house  shots, and  can't  block these
inward  tricep  shots pounding  their  face with  speed and  untimely  efficiency.  You'll
want to  make a pattern on  their face. This  is no better than  hitting them in  the nose
repeatedly  (Unless you want  to kill  them,  in  which  case  uppercut to  the  nose will
suffice). The idea in striking their face in all possible places that are left open to you
is; overwhelming your opponent.  Chances are after  a  couple  of  seconds  of  this their
body  gives  in and  they  go  weak and  confused.  Which  allows  you  to  basically  own
them  with  some  finishing   locks  so  you  can  leave  them  on  the  ground  and  walk
away.

This  method also works just  striking them in their three places they  try to protect. If
you   notice  when   people  feel  threatened  they  curl   up  in  a  ball  instinctively
protecting their vital organs  and face. So  you  strike all  these  weak  points  because
you're fucking  -this close-  to them so they  can't protect  themselves.  They can't turn
around because only idiots turn around in a fight.

(How the hell do you defend against this sort of attack? -Excellent blocking skills.)

If you really want to finish with style...  In his weak state of just being _0nwed,  he'll
be  stepping  back  slowly  and  confused,  if he isn't  -uppercut him.  Then  (if  you're
athletic) you can kick him in the face with a basic side kick.

You can always use your opponents weight to your advantage. Always.

Never  strike  someone (especially at the  start of the fight)  and  leave your  arm  open
to  being  grabbed,  unless  you're  going  to  strike  again  within  the  same instance.
Make it  flow  too. Hitting  someone shouldn't be a  repetitive attempt  at their head. It
should  be  a  procession  of  well  planted  attacks  on  their  open vitals  because one
person  can  only  protect  70%  of  their  vital  body  parts  at  the same  time,  one's
always  open.  And  if   they're  completely  wrapping   themselves   up  because  they're
pussies -this  means  they  have  no  balance  so   you  can  leg   sweep them. I've never
known  anyone  who  has   leg  sweeped   someone  and  hit  them  in the  face  during  or
before the fall, because that would kick ass.

It's all so  chess in a  way. Even though  you're  clearly kicking their  anus  with  your
speed and  well  places shots  and  control over  their weight.  You're also instinctively
defending  yourself  with your inactive  arms  or  in  the  way  you  face with your body.
There's  always  one  retard  who  flails  out attacks  while you're  owning him,  so make
sure you're prepared; getting a smack in the  chin  while  executing  a  wrist  lock isn't
sweet.


Chess rocks.

