WAYS TO KILL/TORTURE 
A SLUG
BY: DIzzIE    Ó1999!

This file contains exactly what the title says (as usual)

1.	Put a firecracker under it.
2.	Smash it with a hammer (might get kinda messy)
3.	Boil it (really cool, the slug's skin begins bubbling and popping)
4.	Put it in the microwave (POP!)
5.	Give it a bath in acid (sulfuric acid will be best)
6.	Spray it with household oven cleaners
7.	Spray it with spray paint (look mommy a neon-orange slug!)
8.	Poke holes in it with a nail (the slug starts leaking black stuff)
9.	Cut of parts of it (the antlers, the tail)
10.	Tie the slug to 2 bent trees, then unbend the trees, ripping the slug in 2.
11.	Make a slug milkshake, yummmmmmmmmy!
12.	Put the slug in the freezer for a while.
13.	Put the slug in melted gold, when it hardens you'll have a slug paperweight. 
14.	Tape the slug to a bowling ball and role it down a steep street
15.	Give it to a hungry homeless person.
16.	Make it listen to country music, (don't be surprised if the slug hangs itself)
17.	Shove it up a cat's arsehole.
18.	Get one of those basketball pumps with the needles and pump up the slug to get a slug balloon!
19.	 Get little pieces of plastic, set them on fire, and drop them on the slug.
20.	Get a syringe and fill it with nitroglycerin, then inject it into the slug and insert a little fuse into the slug. You've just made a slug bomb.
21.	Put the slug in a washer/dryer. Remember, a clean slug is a good slug.
22.	Put the slug in the garbage disposal (get a towel ready).
23.	Sprinkle salt on the slug, and watch it shrink.
24.	Flush it down the toilet, and away it'll go.
25.	Tape it to a tennis ball/soccer ball/golf ball/baseball/basket ball/hockey puck, and play the sport. FORE!!!
26.	Tie it to a giant speaker and turn the volume way up.
27.	Put a shotgun right next to the slug and fire, then see if you can find any pieces of the slug. 
28.	Tie the slug to a stick and put the stick in the middle of a red and hill, pour honey over the slug.

Email me/fax me at xcon0@yahoo.com, 1-559-663-4067 
