                    The Official Rules of Strip Chess v1.1
                      by Ceribia with input from Keri

Contents
1. Disclaimer
2. Basic System
3. Rules for Spectators
4. Special Conditions

1. Disclaimer

    We the creators of The Official Rules of Strip Chess are in no way 
responsible for any thing you do with this file or its contents. This 
includes, but is not limited to, damages resulting from the performance of 
the acts contained with in. If it is illegal in your area don't do it. To 
sum up, don't sue.

2. Basic System

    Strip Chess is based on a variation of the "Piece per Piece system" 
used in many other strip games. It is laid out as follows:

    Pawn: Socks or any other minor piece of clothing. There is no penalty 
for any lost pawn after the first if no further minor clothing items 
exist.

    Bishops and/or Knights: Losing any combination of two means the loss 
of your shirt, this means all shirts above the bra for girls and all above 
skin for guys. The loss of the remaining two has no penalty. If no bra 
exists you still lose all shirts.

    Rooks: Lose both Rooks, loss your pants. If your not wearing underwear 
that's your problem.

    Queen: - If the player is a girl then she loses her bra, note this 
does not mean she loses her shirt. If she is not wearing a bra then she 
loses her pants. If she is not wearing pants she has problems far beyond 
my ability to prepare for.
    - If the player is a guy then he loses either his shirt or pants at 
the discretion of the other player. If he has already lost both of these 
then he loses his underwear.

    King: Kings are considered lost after a checkmate or submission of 
victory to the other player. Losing the king is the lose of underwear, 
note that this does not mean lose of pants unless both rooks were also 
taken.

3. Rules for Spectators

    Each spectator to a game of strip chess must choose one player to 
back. Any penalty applied to a player is also applied to all players that 
are backing them.

4. Special Conditions

Pawn Advancement

    In the case a pawn is upgraded to another piece through it reaching 
the last row the player who controls the pawn may undo the penalty 
suffered for the original lose of the piece to which it is advanced. How 
ever, if it is advanced to a Knight, Bishop, or Rook its advancement must 
bring the total number of pieces in that bracket under the players control 
above two. A pawn that is upgraded is not considered to be lost.

    Example 1: Player 1 upgrades his pawn to a knight and has two bishops 
already under his control, he gets his shirt back.
    Example 2: Player 1 upgrades his pawn to a knight but has only one 
knight and no bishops on the board, no shirt for him.
    Example 3: Player 1 upgrades his pawn to a rook and has no other 
rooks, no pants for them.

    Also, if a pawn is upgraded to a unit for which the player has not yet 
suffered a consequence then it is discounted.

    Example 1: Player 1 upgrades his pawn to a knight after losing one 
knight. After this Player 1 loses a second night, player one has now lost 
his shirt as the total number of knights lost is two. If after this player 
one upgrade another pawn to a knight he would get his shirt back.
