Teleconferences
By, Akurei
January 3, 2001




Teleconferencing is probably the phreaker's trademark.  Being able to create 
a party line is
incredibly to most users.  A teleconference basically is a party line... 
multiple users
can talk on it at one time for one set price, exactly like a party line.  
There are many
different teleconferencing services also.  There is Qwest, At&t, MCI and 
more.  There
are also online teleconferencing, which really sucks!  There are two 
distinctive kinds of
conferences.  There is the dialout conference and the dialin conference.  
With the dialout
conference, you must give someone your number and they will call you... when 
you pick up
the telephone, you will probably hear a beep (depending what service you are 
using) and
you are on the conference!  With a dialin conference, you call a 1800 (or 
another toll
free number), you usually have to enter a certain code, and then you are on 
the conference.
Alot of people online do not like dialout conference because of the risk 
involved with
giving out your number.  For example, lets say you are on irc (internet 
relay chat) and
you join a qwest.  This person can easily find out all kinds of information 
on you.  All
this person has to do is go to http://www.numberfinder.com/ or any other 
reverse phone
number lookup site on the internet.  Also, prank calls!  Some people (I for 
one) get some
serious "shits and gigles" from prank calls.  And calling someone you know 
or dislike
online is even funner.  If they have your number and later decide they do 
not like you,
you are screwed!  They may give it out to other people you don't like!  With 
dialouts,
(qwest for example) you can prank call with the conference.  You can call 
anywhere for
free (unless you used your or your parents credit card to register) and do 
whatever
prank calls you want.  I have personally been on qwests where we called 
three police
stations at once and harassed them, we called the jerky boys homes, and we 
called George
Lukas Films and used a Yoda voice (which was VERY funny by the way).  Qwests 
can be fun,
but very dangerous.  Another danger with qwests is that the people that 
creat it, usually
card it.  Another words, they steal credit cards somehow (most probably use 
a script to
get into a poorly secured websites credit card database) and register on 
qwest with them.
This is very risky... Carding is a federal offense, and a teenager can get 
sent to prison
and charged as an adult if caught with this charge.  Although, this is a 
huge risk, I have
only heard of anyone getting caught from carding a qwest one time in my 
life.  And I found
out later that the only thing they did was question him and then send him 
back on his merry
little way.  One of my favorite things about qwests is that when you call 
someone, you
are totally anonymous.  You can call anyone and when they look at their 
caller id, or dial
*69 or call the operator, all they will see is qwest communications phone 
number!
Qwest probably doesn't even log what numbers people call or do anything at 
all
when it comes to security.  If you want to sign up at qwest, go to 
residential.qwest.com and
press "click to conference".  There should be a JOIN NOW button somewhere.  
The cost per
user on a qwest conference is only five cents, so don't feel too bad if you 
carded one.
If you do card one, and decide to moderate it also, get about three other 
people to
run the conference also (sign onto the conference name and password and call 
some people).
If at least three people are on the same conference, you have a 99.9% chance 
of NOT getting
caught.  And even if you were caught they could not pin anything against 
you.  They have
no clue who actually carded the conference and it's too expensive to 
investigate.  Another
way to make a conference is to beige box someone's house, call a phone 
company and set one
up.  Am I going to tell you how to do this? Nope... There's tons of texts on 
how to make
dialout conferences... But if you can't find one, go to 
http://www.phreak2600.com and I
think there is one somewhere on that site.  Anyways, beige boxing taps onto 
the line
of the person you are beige boxing.  You are basically just adding a new 
telephone to
the telephone line.  I wont get into specifics on beige boxing, but if you 
do beige box
someone's house, you can easily call long distance numbers at no charge to 
you.  And alot
more.  Harassing the operator is always fun.  Prank calls are great too 
considering you
are totally anonymous if you are beige boxing it.  I actually made a text on 
how to make
a beige box at http://www.inforeading.com you may want to check out.  
Sometimes people
make conferences with pbx's... im not very knowledgable when it comes to 
pbx's because
to tell you the truth, there are not that many around anymore.  I hope you 
learned something
from this text... Thanks for reading it, you can get alot of my other texts 
at
http://www.inforeading.com !
