THE HANDBOOK OF THIEVERY
         v1.0
   26. September 2002
      by Acidous



Content
-------
[ 01. Disclaimer                    ]
[ 02. Thieves Equipment             ]
[ 03. Making Some Equipment         ]
[ 04. Your Home Base                ]
[ 05. Thieves Training              ]
[ 06. What To Do And What Not To Do ]
[ 07. Planning And Doing A Job      ]
[ 08. Dumpster Diving               ]
[ 09. Shoplifting                   ]
[ 10. Worm Theft                    ]
[ 11. Word From The Author          ]


01. Disclaimer
--------------
Acidous take no responcibility for what actions this handbook
or any of the content of it may cause. Acidous will not take
the blame for anything you do after reading this handbook.
Everything you do is done by yourself, and can not be
forced upon Acidous or any other individual but yourself.
Be aware of that Acidous do NOT encourage to such actions
which is dealt with in this book.


02. Thieves Equipment
---------------------
A good thief needs good equipment, but a lousy thief
also needs proper equipment. What type of equipment
you need is set by what type of theft you are going
to commit. The following list contains mostly the
equipment you need for a normal job.

Dark Clothes
 This is very important since most of your work will be
 done at night. They should be tight, this is because
 loose clothes slow you down, and they may also swing
 into some laser sensors, motion sensors or optic sensors.
 Your shoes must not have a special pattern on the sole.

Gloves
 Black gloves which hinders your fingerprints from telling
 the police/investigators who you are. Never leave any
 prints.

Flashlight
 The flashlight must not be anything big like those D3
 flashlights. It must be small and handy, and must not
 slow you down the least.

Lockpick
 This is in case you need to pick some locks.
 As you might understand, this could prove quite
 useful.

Backpack
 Use a backpack to keep the items you steal in. The backpack
 must not be too big, and it should also sit on your
 back really good. If it's loose, then it's not the right
 backpack to use. It must also be dark.

Toolbelt
 Keep the tools/items you might need when out on a job in
 a toolbelt. It will take too long to go in the backpack
 every time you need something. You must use as little time
 as possible on the job.

Knife/Clippers
 For cutting wires, seals, phonelines, etc.

Cordless Drill/Screwdriver
 For drilling up locks, making traps, unscrewing panels, etc.

Rope
 Filament thread is the most recommended, but it is rather hard to get,
 so a fiber thread or any other thin, but yet very strong rope
 will also do.



03. Making Some Equipment
-------------------------
Some of your thieves equipment can without too much trouble be made
by yourself. The quality of this equipment depends on how much time
you puts into it. Of course, a master thief would put much time
into making his equipment, and would also perhaps put his own
trademark to it, but that is just something which will lead the
federals back to you.

Easy Bomb
 This bomb is mainly for destroying locks, blowing of chains,
 creating diversions and the likes.
 What you do is you get some of those ground-based fireworks
 (Air Shot works great!) which shoot glowing balls up into 
 the air and explode.  Open them VERY carefully so that 
 they don't go off. Take the round cardboard cylinder which is
 in the middle of it and remove it. This is the bomb.
 You will see a little part of fuse sticking out of it, if
 you do not run very fast, then I'll suggest you make it longer.
 Put it into the item/thing you want to blow up, light the fuse
 and run to a proper distance. It will make some light and then
 got off with a VERY loud bang.
 It is also great for use as grenades. Light them up and throw
 them. It won't hurt anyone much, but sure will fuzz them off and
 scare them.



04. Your Home Base
------------------
As a pro thief you will not be operating from your house.
That would only make you get caught by the police.
What you need is a thief headquarters, a safe place where
you can stash all your equipment and gains from the jobs,
but it must also be a place where you can build Easy Bombs and
the likes(eg. Not a gas station). If there is an empty house or
warehouse, which nobody use, on the other side of the city from 
where you live, then it will be the perfect location for your home
base. But it still need a lot of work. First of all, people may
stumble upon your base and discover your equipment, items from 
the raids, blueprints, etc. etc. etc.
So what you need to do is to build several hidden rooms.
You need at least 4 different medium sized hidden niches/rooms.
Some good places to use are:
 -Beneath the floor
 -In the walls
 -The ceiling
Do not use places like inside cabinets and in drawers, that is
just too obvious places to hide your items.

Beneath The Floor
 This is probably the easiest one, but it won't work at all if
 it's a concrete floor, or any materials of the likes.
 But a wooden floor will be just perfect. 
 Here's what you have to do:
 First find an area where the wooden boards isn't too long, then
 gently remove the nails so that you do not destroy them, and also
 make sure you don't leave any marks in the wooden boards(Use a rather 
 large flat piece of wood to put between the hammer and the boards).
 Then remove the board and use a shovel to dig a hole in the ground.
 Then put a plastic box in the hole, the top of the plastic box should
 be about 15-20 cm below the opening of the hole. Now put some of your
 stash in the hole and put the lid on the plastic box. Fill all
 around the sides of the box with earth, do not pack it more tightly
 than the normal earth around the box. Now put about 2 cm of earth on
 top of the box and then cover the area where you just put earth with
 some 1/2 cm thick wooden boards, and then fill the rest of the hole
 with earth so that it looks like nothing ever happened there.
 If you have any more earth left, use a vacuum cleaner to take it up,
 and dump it about 100 meters away from your base.
 Now, take the wooden boards which originally were on the floor and
 put them back in place, then use the same nails you pulled out
 earlier and hammer them gently into the boards again.
 Then gather some dust and the likes(not all from one place) and
 spread it over the area so that it blends perfectly in with the
 rest of the floor. This is one of the safest places to hide your
 stuff.

In The Walls 
 Remove the boards from the area on the wall in which you want to
 hide something. Remove the isolation and put the stash in where
 the isolation were earlier. Then put the boards back on and use
 the same nails as were there earlier.

In The Ceiling:
 I really can't explain this, some houses already have rooms in
 the ceiling and it's very hard to explain for me when not many
 houses give you this opportunity. Use your imagination.

Do not put all your equipment and blueprints in one hidden room
and all your gains from different missions in another. Spread
it out, so that you won't be totally ruined if someone find
one of your holes/rooms.

Entrances And Escape Routes
 One entrance won't do you no good, you need at least two
 entrances/exits to make sure you will not be trapped if the
 police come. They must be easy accessible and you must be able
 to move quietly and swiftly in them.
 If there is only one exit in the base, then make at least one
 more. But make sure it doens't look like an exit made for
 escaping only, make it seems like it was there originally, or
 hide it.
 When it comes to escape routes: plan them well! When in an
 emergency situation you must not hestitate with what is to be
 done. Always grab all your gadgets and other stuff before you
 follow the escape route. Sometimes it is even sufficient to hide.
 A hidingplace can ba made in the same ways as the item hiding way,
 only big enough for you to fit in.

Another good way to secure your privacy is to find a room with a
single door and no windows in. What you do is that you remove any
signs of there being a door there and insert a wall. Use old
materials which match the surrounding walls, and make it so that
you can open it to get out, but it is not noticable that it is
a door from the other side. Also soundisolate the walls to make
sure someone doesn't knock on the wall and figure out it's a
hidden room there, make the walls thick.

Traps And Mechanism
 Traps and alarm mechanism is needed for you to fend of intruders.
 Only a trip-wire connected to a bell could prove a useful as
 a very primitve alarm mechanism, but you could also rig up a huge
 computerized alarms network, but that would only let the police
 know you were there if they should find your base.
 Traps will also let the police know you were there, but you can make
 traps which you may disable and enable as you need them.
 And example of that is if the police know where you are and they come
 to arrest you. What you do it that you activate the traps, then hide
 all other evidence you were there before you use your escape route.
 The traps may fend of the police long enough for you to do what is
 needed to do, it may mislead them and the likes.



05. Thieves Training
--------------------
It is a well known fact that you can never be a good
thief without the proper training.
You need to replace most of the slowing fat with muscles.

Building Muscles
 Do push-ups, a lot of them. This will strengthen your arms
  and make you much more capable of defending yourself
  in a crisis situation.
 Start running/jogging to make your legs stronger.
  In a getaway situation, you might need to run fast
  and over a longer distance.
 Do sit-ups to strengthen your stomach. If hit in the
  stomach and your washboard is properly built up,
  then the attacker will get more hurt than you.
 Never overdo the training. You must not look like a
  giant monster. The trick is to be both strong and
  slim at the same time.
 Practise in moving swift and soundless. The more sound
  you make, the bigger is the chance for you to be detected.
 

Martial Arts
 You should learn at least the basics of one martial art.
 Karate is not one of the martial arts you need to learn
 at first. Start in the direction of Taekwondo, which
 is much better for defending yourself than Karate.
 Try to only move on to the next martial art if you feel
 that you master the one you are doing enough to take on
 a person bigger than yourself.

Picking Locks
 Practice picking the locks at your home. Start with easy
 ones, then move on to the harder locks. Read manuals
 on lock picking.

Electronics & Alarms
 Study electronics, find out how different alarms work
 and how you can bypass, reprogram or destroy them.
 Also study how you can make other electronical items
 to go mad.



06. What To Do And What Not To Do
---------------------------------
It is only when on a mission that you turn into the master
thief you really are. At day, you dress up and act like
a normal person, caring about everyday cares, and trying
to do a good job.
This section will explain how to act in your everday life
if you do not want to get caught.

Act normal, tend your garden, feed the cats, talk to neighbors,
have a good time with friends.
If you have a job, try to do it as good as you can, never
overspeed or get caught for traffic violations or any other
small crimes. Make you seem like a person who would never
commit a crime.

After a successful raid, never brag about it, do not got
totally crazy. Relax, act like nothing happened. That will make
it much harder for someone to track you down, plus that no one will
suspect you for the crime.



07. Planning And Doing A Job
----------------------------
Planning the job is very important.
If you do not plan it, then the possibility for failing
dramatically increases.

The Planning Phase:
 * Get blueprints of the facility you will be entering.
 * Set a time frame for the job,  never exceed the time frame.
 * Plan routes and possible other routes in case the first
   one should fail.
 * Always have an emergency plan in case something goes wrong.
 * Check the guard lists, this can be done by dumpster diving
   (see own chapter on dumpster diving)
 * Check for cameras, motion detectors and other alarms.
 * Go through the whole plan many times to check if everything 
   is right.
 * Memorize the plan, do not carry with you a plan description.
   A map may be brought if you are unable to memorize it.

The Job Itself:
 * Follow the plan you made down to the last detail.
   Only use other plans when it fails.
 * Do not exceed the time frame, an unstructured job might turn into
   a total disaster.
 * Do not use the flashlight unless you really need to.
 * If there seems to be no solution, or something you did not plan
   comes up, improvize, it is the only way.
 * If any major problem comes up, halt the job and move out as fast
   as possible.
 * Do not leave a note or tag with your alias, it will only help the
   police to track you down.
 * Do not bring any lethal weapons at all, weapons may only tempt you
   to use them, use your mind and martial arts instead. 
 * Do NOT kill anyone. Knock them unconscious, nothing more than that.
   Try at your best to avoid being detected.


After The Job:
 * Destroy all plans, documents, items, from the planning of the job.
   Do not leave anything behind.
 * Do not brag about it. Not to friends, strangers, on the internet
   or anywhere. The government will track you down and take you.
 * Act like nothing happened, act normally concerned over the
   newspaper headlines. Make it seem like you do not have anything
   to do with it.



08. Dumpster Diving
-------------------
Dumpster diving is very informative.
The nice thing is that you can find all kind of stuff in a dumpster.
In public paper-dumpster one can find social security numbers, names,
addresses, porno-mags, magazines you didn't even know exist.
And in those large company dumpsters one can find all kinds of
info about the company, passwords, security lists, etc. etc.
Now, on to the diving.
There are a few security subjects you need to take care of before and
while going on a dive.
Make sure there is nobody around to see you, also make sure there is
no cameras around when you dive.
Kinda boring getting busted when diving.
Well, anyway, if someone should see you, make sure they won't be able
to identify you later on. Wear dark clothes at night.
If someone sees you, run as fast as you can, and try to always face away
from them. In that way they won't see your face, and won't be able to
give a positive ID on you.



09. Shoplifting
---------------
Okay, shoplifting is Easy, just stuff the shit in you bag, backpack,
whatever, but getting out is harder, those sensors at the entrance
sets of and an alarm if the stuff you are lifting haven't got the 
"chip" disabled. There are many ways to get through this sensor, and
here's three of them

The Most Risky Way
When no one is at the counter, put your merchandise on the counter,
then take it off, the counter has a machine that disables the "chip".
Stuff it back in your bag and walk out.

The First Less Risk Way
Get yourself one of those machines that disables the "chip" and 
make it portable if you have to, take it to the shop, get some
stuff you like, use your machine on it and put it in your
bag, then walk out of the shop, and the alarm won't go off.

The Second Less Risk Way
Get yourself a lead bag(Aluminium foil might also work), 
or a bag with lead-walls on the inside(easy to make) put the 
stuff you want to lift in the bag and walk out, the sensors 
at the entrance can't "see" through the lead shielding, something 
that makes it think there is nothing there.

Another Less Risk Way
This method doesn't work in all shops. Many shops have equipped
their merchandise with "invisible" alarms.
Anyway, here's how to do it.
You need one of those metal clippers, or perhaps if you can get one,
one of those things they use in the store to cut off the alarms.
This is the type of alarm they most often use in cloth stores.
It is a big white chip or an ampoule filled with paint(sometimes
they even use both). Clip them off and do whatever you want
to with them,(ie. put them in someones pocket).



10. Worm Theft
--------------
You can also use the computer to steal a lot of money.
This works only if you already know how to hack your way
into a bank, or get a worm inside the banks computer system in
some other way. What you need to do is to make a worm which steals 
only a few cents each time a transaction is performed, in that way it
is less likely the bank will detect the worm at all, because it
only steals such small amounts. The worm must also put the money
in many different accounts, because then if one of the accounts get's
taken down, the other account will still have a lot of money on them,
it will also make the worm harder to detect.
Here's a simple example on how much money you can make by doing this.
Let's say that 1000 people uses their accounts every hour, and that
the worm steals 5 cents for every transaction/withdrawal.
m = 1000x * 5 / 100
So, for one week that will be:
m = (1000 * 168) * 5 / 100
m = 168000 * 5 / 100
m = 8400 $
And that is not a bad weekly salary at all.



11. Word From The Author
------------------------
This handbook was written purely for educational purposes, and is not
intended for readers below the age of 18.
But after all, I don't care how old the readers are, and that is because
this book is put on the internet, and I do not care wether you read it
or not. IF the instructions in this book is followed, it may cause
in the serious fellony of making you a pro thief, if you are dedicated
enough that is, and it also may cause you to make alot of money, but
there of course is the risk of getting caught. Remember the old
saying: "There is always someone better".
Feel free to send me an e-mail if you have something which you think
should be added to the next release of the handbook, or if you
just want to say Hi.

 -Acidous (acidous_@hotmail.com)
  21.9.02 (21. September, 2002)
