
               THE HANDBOOK OF THIEVERY
                       v2.0
                   17. May 2003
                    by Acidous



Content
-------
[ 01. Disclaimer                    ]
[ 02. Thieves Equipment             ]
[ 03. Making Some Equipment         ]
[ 04. Your Home Base                ]
[ 05. Thieves Training              ]
[ 06. What To Do And What Not To Do ]
[ 07. Planning And Doing A Job      ]
[ 08. Entry Methods                 ]
[ 09. When Detected/Confronted      ]
[ 10. Dealing With Clients          ]
[ 11. Drugs                         ]
[ 12. Ethics/Other                  ]
[ 13. Dumpster Diving               ]
[ 14. Lockpicking Substitutes       ]
[ 15. Shoplifting                   ]
[ 16. Worm Theft                    ]
[ 17. Word From The Author          ]


01. Disclaimer
--------------
Acidous take no responcibility for what actions this handbook
or any of the content of it may cause. Acidous will not take
the blame for anything you do after reading this handbook.
Everything you do is done by yourself, and can not be
forced upon Acidous or any other individual but yourself.
Be aware of that Acidous do NOT encourage to such actions
which is dealt with in this book.


02. Thieves Equipment
---------------------
A good thief needs good equipment, but a lousy thief
also needs proper equipment. What type of equipment
you need is set by what type of theft you are going
to commit. The following list contains mostly the
equipment you need for a normal job.

Dark Clothes
This is very important since most of your work will be
done at night. They should be tight, this is because
loose clothes slow you down, and they may also swing
into some laser sensors, motion sensors or optic sensors.
Your shoes must not have a special pattern on the sole.

Gloves
Black gloves which hinders your fingerprints from telling
the police/investigators who you are. Never leave any
prints.

Flashlight
The flashlight must not be anything big like those D3
flashlights. It must be small and handy, and must not
slow you down the least.

Lockpick
This is in case you need to pick some locks.
As you might understand, this could prove quite
useful.

Backpack
Use a backpack to keep the items you steal in. The backpack
must not be too big, and it should also sit on your
back really good. If it's loose, then it's not the right
backpack to use. It must also be dark.

Toolbelt
Keep the tools/items you might need when out on a job in
a toolbelt. It will take too long to go in the backpack
every time you need something. You must use as little time
as possible on the job.

Knife/Clippers
For cutting wires, seals, phonelines, etc.

Cordless Drill/Screwdriver
For drilling up locks, making traps, unscrewing panels, etc.

Rope
Filament thread is the most recommended, but it is rather hard to get,
so a fiber thread or any other thin, but yet very strong rope
will also do.



03. Making Some Equipment
-------------------------
Some of your thieves equipment can without too much trouble be made
by yourself. The quality of this equipment depends on how much time
you puts into it. Of course, a master thief would put much time
into making his equipment, and would also perhaps put his own
trademark to it, but that is just something which will lead the
federals back to you.

Easy Bomb
This bomb is mainly for destroying locks, blowing of chains,
creating diversions and the likes.
What you do is you get some of those ground-based fireworks
(Air Shot works great!) which shoot glowing balls up into
the air and explode.  Open them VERY carefully so that
they don't go off. Take the round cardboard cylinder which is
in the middle of it and remove it. This is the bomb.
You will see a little part of fuse sticking out of it, if
you do not run very fast, then I'll suggest you make it longer.
Put it into the item/thing you want to blow up, light the fuse
and run to a proper distance. It will make some light and then
got off with a VERY loud bang.
It is also great for use as grenades. Light them up and throw
them. It won't hurt anyone much, but sure will fuzz them off and
scare them.



04. Your Home Base
------------------
As a pro thief you will not be operating from your house.
That would only make you get caught by the police.
What you need is a thief headquarters, a safe place where
you can stash all your equipment and gains from the jobs,
but it must also be a place where you can build Easy Bombs and
the likes(eg. Not a gas station). If there is an empty house or
warehouse, which nobody use, on the other side of the city from
where you live, then it will be the perfect location for your home
base. But it still need a lot of work. First of all, people may
stumble upon your base and discover your equipment, items from
the raids, blueprints, etc. etc. etc.
So what you need to do is to build several hidden rooms.
You need at least 4 different medium sized hidden niches/rooms.
Some good places to use are:
-Beneath the floor
-In the walls
-The ceiling
Do not use places like inside cabinets and in drawers, that is
just too obvious places to hide your items.

Beneath The Floor
This is probably the easiest one, but it won't work at all if
it's a concrete floor, or any materials of the likes.
But a wooden floor will be just perfect.
Here's what you have to do:
First find an area where the wooden boards isn't too long, then
gently remove the nails so that you do not destroy them, and also
make sure you don't leave any marks in the wooden boards(Use a rather
large flat piece of wood to put between the hammer and the boards).
Then remove the board and use a shovel to dig a hole in the ground.
Then put a plastic box in the hole, the top of the plastic box should
be about 15-20 cm below the opening of the hole. Now put some of your
stash in the hole and put the lid on the plastic box. Fill all
around the sides of the box with earth, do not pack it more tightly
than the normal earth around the box. Now put about 2 cm of earth on
top of the box and then cover the area where you just put earth with
some 1/2 cm thick wooden boards, and then fill the rest of the hole
with earth so that it looks like nothing ever happened there.
If you have any more earth left, use a vacuum cleaner to take it up,
and dump it about 100 meters away from your base.
Now, take the wooden boards which originally were on the floor and
put them back in place, then use the same nails you pulled out
earlier and hammer them gently into the boards again.
Then gather some dust and the likes(not all from one place) and
spread it over the area so that it blends perfectly in with the
rest of the floor. This is one of the safest places to hide your
stuff.

In The Walls
Remove the boards from the area on the wall in which you want to
hide something. Remove the isolation and put the stash in where
the isolation were earlier. Then put the boards back on and use
the same nails as were there earlier.

In The Ceiling:
I really can't explain this, some houses already have rooms in
the ceiling and it's very hard to explain for me when not many
houses give you this opportunity. Use your imagination.

Do not put all your equipment and blueprints in one hidden room
and all your gains from different missions in another. Spread
it out, so that you won't be totally ruined if someone find
one of your holes/rooms.

Entrances And Escape Routes
One entrance won't do you no good, you need at least two
entrances/exits to make sure you will not be trapped if the
police come. They must be easy accessible and you must be able
to move quietly and swiftly in them.
If there is only one exit in the base, then make at least one
more. But make sure it doens't look like an exit made for
escaping only, make it seems like it was there originally, or
hide it.
When it comes to escape routes: plan them well! When in an
emergency situation you must not hestitate with what is to be
done. Always grab all your gadgets and other stuff before you
follow the escape route. Sometimes it is even sufficient to hide.
A hidingplace can ba made in the same ways as the item hiding way,
only big enough for you to fit in.

Another good way to secure your privacy is to find a room with a
single door and no windows in. What you do is that you remove any
signs of there being a door there and insert a wall. Use old
materials which match the surrounding walls, and make it so that
you can open it to get out, but it is not noticable that it is
a door from the other side. Also soundisolate the walls to make
sure someone doesn't knock on the wall and figure out it's a
hidden room there, make the walls thick.

Traps And Mechanisms
Traps and alarm mechanisms are needed for you to fend of intruders.
Only a trip-wire connected to a bell could prove useful as
a very primitve alarm mechanism, but you could also rig up a huge
computerized alarms network, but that would only let the police
know you were there if they should find your base.
Traps will also let the police know you were there, but you can make
traps which you may disable and enable as you need them.
And example of that is if the police know where you are and they come
to arrest you. What you do it that you activate the traps, then hide
all other evidence you were there before you use your escape route.
The traps may fend of the police long enough for you to do what is
needed to do, it may mislead them and the likes.



05. Thieves Training
--------------------
It is a well known fact that you can never be a good
thief without the proper training.
You need to replace most of the slowing fat with muscles.

Building Muscles
Do push-ups, a lot of them. This will strengthen your arms
  and chest, it will alsomake you much more capable of defending
  yourself in a crisis situation.
Start running/jogging to make your legs stronger.
  In a getaway situation, you might need to run fast
  and over a longer distance.
Do sit-ups to strengthen your stomach. If hit in the
  stomach and your washboard is properly built up,
  then the attacker will get more hurt than you.
Never overdo the training. You must not look like a
  giant monster. The trick is to be both strong and
  slim at the same time.
Practise in moving swift and soundless. The more sound
  you make, the bigger is the chance for you to be detected.


Martial Arts
You should learn at least the basics of one martial art.
Karate is not one of the martial arts you need to learn
at first. Start in the direction of Taekwondo, which
is much better for defending yourself than Karate.
Try to only move on to the next martial art if you feel
that you master the one you are doing enough to take on
a person bigger than yourself.

Picking Locks
Practice picking the locks at your home. Start with easy
ones, then move on to the harder locks. Read manuals
on lock picking.

Electronics & Alarms
Study electronics, find out how different alarms work
and how you can bypass, reprogram or destroy them.
Also study how you can make other electronical items
to go mad.



06. What To Do And What Not To Do
---------------------------------
It is only when on a mission that you turn into the master
thief you really are. At day, you dress up and act like
a normal person, caring about everyday cares, and trying
to do a good job.
This section will explain how to act in your everday life
if you do not want to get caught.

Act normal, tend your garden, feed the cats, talk to neighbors,
have a good time with friends.
If you have a job, try to do it as good as you can, never
overspeed or get caught for traffic violations or any other
small crimes. Make you seem like a person who would never
commit a crime.

After a successful raid, never brag about it, do not go
totally crazy. Relax, act like nothing happened. That will make
it much harder for someone to track you down, plus that no one will
suspect you for the crime.



07. Planning And Doing A Job
----------------------------
Planning the job is very important.
If you do not plan it, then the possibility for failing
dramatically increases.

The Planning Phase:
* Get blueprints of the facility you will be entering.
* Set a time frame for the job,  never exceed the time frame.
* Plan routes and possible other routes in case the first
   one should fail.
* Always have an emergency plan in case something goes wrong.
* Check the guard lists, this can be done by dumpster diving
   (see own chapter on dumpster diving)
* Check for cameras, motion detectors and other alarms.
* Go through the whole plan many times to check if everything
   is right.
* Memorize the plan, do not carry with you a plan description.
   A map may be brought if you are unable to memorize it.

The Job Itself:
* Follow the plan you made down to the last detail.
   Only use other plans when it fails.
* Do not exceed the time frame, an unstructured job might turn into
   a total disaster.
* Do not use the flashlight unless you really need to.
* If there seems to be no solution, or something you did not plan
   comes up, improvize, it is the only way.
* If any major problem comes up, halt the job and move out as fast
   as possible.
* Do not leave a note or tag with your alias, it will only help the
   police to track you down.
* Do not bring any lethal weapons at all, weapons may only tempt you
   to use them, use your mind and martial arts instead.
* Do NOT kill anyone. Knock them unconscious, nothing more than that.
   Try at your best to avoid being detected.


After The Job:
* Destroy all plans, documents, items, from the planning of the job.
   Do not leave anything behind.
* Do not brag about it. Not to friends, strangers, on the internet
   or anywhere. The government will track you down and take you.
* Act like nothing happened, act normally concerned over the
   newspaper headlines. Make it seem like you do not have anything
   to do with it.



08. Entry Methods
-----------------
There are many different ways to enter the premises in which your
job will be concentrated in, and it is very important that your entry
makes as little noise as possible, which causes the probability
of detection to fall drastically.
This section of the book will explain different ways to silently, and
without causing too much attention, entering the premises in which you
will be working in.

Contact Plastics
Contact plastics are those thick see-through plastic films with glue
on one of the sides, and it is used on books(especially school-books)
to stop them from falling apart. This contact plastic is very useful
when entering through windows which must be broken.
What you do is that you put the plastic on the window(with the glue to
the window) so that it sticks to it. Then hit on the middle of the
plastic with a hammer or any other hard object.
The glass will break, but instead of breaking into a thousand pieces,
making a lot of noise and falling to the ground making even more noise,
it will this time stick to the glue on the plastic and make almost no
sound at all. Then all you have to do is to remove the plastic and
the window is open and ready to be climbed through.
But of course, this method leaves good traces of you being there.

Diamond Knife
It is a well known fact that diamond is harder than any material you
may be in posession of. So, a diamond knife will easily be able to
cut through glass. There are many types of them, both cheap and
expensive. If you are really serious about being a master thief, the
obivous selection would be a expensive, but very good diamond knife.
It should also be one of those which look like a compass(the compass
which you make perfect circles with). It does not have to be big,
since you are not supposed to use it for making big holes in the glass.
What you do is that you place a small cupping glass on the part you will
be cutting away, and then placing the knife on the glass and make a nice
and round circle big enough for you to fit your arm through.
Then remove the knife and take the glass piece away with the cupping glass.
As you have might figured out, this method is mostly for when you are
going to open something on the other side, and also that the cupping glass
is for making sure the glass piece does not fall to the ground and make
a loud sound which will attract attention.

Card Readers
There are more than one option when dealing with card readers.
Most of these readers are based on reading magnetic stripes, something
in which you may bypass by fooling/short-circuiting it or by using a
fabricated or stolen access card.
Using a fabricated/stolen access card is really the easiest way to get
past the card reader. You can either secretly steal an access card from
an employee or other person with a desired access level, and then using his
card or using a magnetic card reader and writer to copy his card and then
putting his card back without him noticing. Another solution of this type
is to hack into their database, either locally or externally and creating
a false account and then creating yourself an access card.
Fooling/short-circuiting is the more stressing way, but it does not need 
much
work earlier except learning how it works of course. What you need to do is 
to
open the card reader and fool it by either short-circuiting it, something 
which
in most cases sets of one or more alarms, or by inserting a new chip which 
makes
it think you have access to the desired area. Of course, this 
fooling/short-circuiting
method takes more time than stealing a card

Breaking Open and Smashing
Breaking open doors, windows, walls, etc. should always be your last option.
You must always try to leave as little evidence and make as little sound as
possible.
Breaking and smashing things often cause a lot of noise and almost always
attracts attention to you and your presence.



09. When Detected/Confronted
----------------------------
Beind detected and confronted is one of the things you must try your best
to avoid. However, it is impossible to avoid detection in certain 
situations.
When detected, it is very important that you stop the person(s) you are
detected by from notifying others about your presence, and also make sure
that you do not notify others of your presence.

There is something which is important when confronted in battle with the
person(s) who detected you. You must not make noise(i.e. screaming, 
yelling).
Making much noise will only cause others to become aware of your presence
and come to aid your opposers.
Also try to render your opponent harmless/unconscious quickly and without
sound. It is also very smart to be totally quite when fighting. Because if
you are well trained in martial arts and also fight without making a sound,
your opponent will think of you as a master within fighting, and fear you,
something which will make him/her more insecure in what to do, something
which makes him/her slower and more unsteady.
It is a well known fact that screaming and making random loud noises will
scare and surprise your opponent so that he/she will become more insecure,
but it is not to be recommended in most situations.

The use of chloroform have been widely used in movies and fantasy where
the master thief is involved. However, chloroform is only used by
unprofessional persons. The reason for that is that chloroform does not
have a reliable effect. The effect varies from time to time and the person
you use it on. Chloroform can actually kill a person because of the
unstability in how it works on the human body.
So therefore, chloroform is not to be recommended at all.



10. Dealing With Clients
------------------------
Since you will have trouble distributing and getting rid of famous
and valuable artifacts when only working for yourself, you will need
a rich and well-built clientele.
There are many precautions which must be taken in concern when dealing
with clients. They may be con-artists, federal investigators, or any
other person/group of persons you may have come in trouble with.

The trick is to always be smarter and take more precautions than the
ones trying to trick and kill you.
There is one thing that must be said clearly before you continue
with this section; mostly everything you see in movies on how money
transaction if performed will not work in real life at all.
And always remember to run a background check on all your clients.

Building Your Clientele
Building a respected and rich clientele from scratch will be very
hard in the beginning. You should not turn down any offer except for
real dirt jobs like stealing spirits from one alcoholic for another 
alcoholic.
It is of great importance that your first few missions become successful,
something which of course is the hardest since it is your first missions.
As more missions are completed successfully, you will gain more respect
and get more clients. Respect is one of the most important things in the
business. You will only get dirt jobs if you do not have respect and a good
reputation. It is also important that no one really knows you. They just
know that you are very good, one of the best, but not who you are, what
you look like, and so on.
Spreading the word of your services will mostly only be needed in the
starting-up phase. If you hear from someone that they are spreading word
of another offer, tell them about another offer which you heard of(of course
it is yourself), you may also pay someone else to spread the word for you.
Of course, paying someone for doing it is the most recommended in most
situations. But keep in mind that the one spreading the word must never
be in direct contact with you, not even in the same room. The reason for
this last precaution is that if someone sees that you are becoming too
successful, they might try to eliminate you from the game, and just about
everyone has their own price before switching alliance.

Getting Hired
It is also of great importance that you never come in direct contact or
even in the same room as any client. You should not even be in the same
building, but instead use cameras, microphones and speakers so that you
can always see, hear and talk to the client.
Never accept a job or get to an agreement over the phone, and always use
payphones, cellphones or satellite phones when contacting the client.
Always remember that cellphones may be traced via the GSM tele network.
Only tell the client where and when to meet you over the phone, and never
keep the call open for more than 1 minute each time.
Also change numbers between every client, so that they can not trace your
cellphone using a number. Always watch for under-cover federal agents who
try to arrest you and take you to jail. The reason for not being in
the same room/building as the client is that they might have 50 other
waiting for his signal to storm the building and arrest, kill or take
you with them.
Also never tell when or where the mission will be starting, the client
must never know until the news hit the newspaper frontpages.
Do not tell them where or when to get the goods before after the mission
is over and you have placed the mission objective at the drop-off
location and left the area. Watch our for fingerprints on equipment like
cameras, microphones, speakers, and on the areas you are in.
Never meet the clients at the same location, always swap locations
so that they can not get a fix on where you will be going before
you do.

Money Transfer
Getting payment for the job is the most important thing since you
need money to live from(of course you have a normal day-time job to).
As always, you must not be in the same area/building as the client
coming with the moneym, and you should try to get an arrangement so
that you get half or 1/4 of the money before the mission, and the
rest after it is completed.
Always get the money in small bills, never get large bills.
You decide what kind of box/bag/briefcase the client will be carrying
the money in. And arrange so that you, or someone you have payed will
walk past the client on the street, and as he pass him stroke a
"bug-detector"(detects signals going out, often used for tracing money
and drugs by police) across the surface of the bag. If the bug-detector
shows positive detection of signals, then abort the swap and contact
the client telling him/her that the mission is aborted due to break
of agreement. Also have many briefcases/containers which are identical
to the ones the client is carrying the money in. Make several payed
persons carry them around, and let one of them pick up the money.
Make sure the money is placed at a location which can not be kept
under surveillance from many places at once. Then make the person swap
the empty briefcase with his own and walk away. Then make sure they
swap cases between them many times to confuse the client is he/she is
following, before bringing it to the drop-off point where you will be
picking up the money. Do not pick them up in person, but try to
make a sort of mechanism which dumps the money down a hole or
the likes so that you can pick them up undisturbed.



11. Drugs
---------
Drugs are one of the things which you must stay as far away from as
possible. Just about every drug will make you an addict after consuming
enough of it. Hard drugs makes you and addict easier than other drugs.
Therefore it is obivous that it must be forbidden for you to use any
drugs or other addictive drugs.
For every drug or substance you use regularly, there is a new weakness.
The following is a list of drugs and why not to use them.

Hard Drugs(heroin, cocaine, etc.)
These so-called hard drugs are the ones you will really have to watch
out for. They give you a nice trip, and you feel fine and all that, but
it will make you an addict extremely quickly. And the comedown, or the
impact with the world as it may be called, has a tendency to make you
depressed and strengthen your urge for more. It will also make you blunt
and slow.

Less Hard Drugs(marihuana, mushrooms, etc)
Marihuana is not a good thing. You get high from it, something which
will make you an addict, and it also contains many chemicals which
are dangerous to your body. It will destroy your lounges, something
which causes a decrease in your stamina.
Mushrooms are also very dangerous because they can also cause
drug dependencies, and it will destroy your body.

Smoking
Smoking is actually a real meanie within the drugs.
It is legal in most countries(illegal in one country actually), and
they cause a severe addiction, and they also drastically increase
the probability for cancer. They also lower your stamina if they are
used regularly, and may also give you emphysema, which is a lounge
disease.

Others
Coffee is one of the less dangerous substances in which you may
consume or use. But still, it is something you must not use
regularly. Coffee may seem good to keep you awake, but the truth
is that this drug may also cause addiction, and it also creates
a health risk within different subjects.
Alcohol isn't really addictive, but people will tend to drink much
of it often. Alcohol dissolves fat, and it goes straight to the brain
with the blood. It does its work on the fat in and around the brain
and makes you blunt and slow. The alcohol attacking the fat around
brain is the reason for you not remembering anything after drinking
much the day before.

Performance Improving Drugs
The so-called Performance Improving Drugs, or PIDs, are drugs which
do not cause direct addiction, and no direct disease.
Examples of these are amphetamine, caffeine and anabolic steroids.
Amphetamine is used to not get tired when running and using your
body. This may seem handy at first, but it really is not.
Amphetamine increases the blood circulation(heart rate) and body
temperature. This combined with stress and major use of muscles may
cause heat-stroke, or over-stress.
Caffeine will stop you from feeling tired. This may also seem handy
at first, but it may make you addicted to it, something which is
not wanted at all.
Anabolic Steroids are used for making the mucles "grow" very fast.
It is not good at all when training to become a master thief because
you do not get as strong as you would by training, and you will turn
into a giant bulldozer of a person, something which is not good at all.



12. Ethics/Other
----------------
Of course you will think of a thief as a reckless being, without any
ethics or rights-and-wrongs in life. But that is only true for the
villains and small crooks. A real master thief will have his ethics
and obey them.
A true master thief will have respect for church and religion.
One should not take things or do things which affect the church or
religion unless one are truly sure it is the right thing to do.
Also, never take from old, ill or poor people. They need all the
money they have and do not need another worry on their head.
But one of the most important things is that you know your own
ethics, and create your own rules to follow.
And please, do not become reckless as so many others before you.

Another thing which is important to hinder the police or anyone
else from capturing you is to not have a pattern.
Do jobs at random locations and not in a specific order, do not
leave a trademark or anything else that my lead the investigators
to you.


13. Dumpster Diving
-------------------
Dumpster diving is very informative.
The nice thing is that you can find all kind of stuff in a dumpster.
In public paper-dumpster one can find social security numbers, names,
addresses, porno-mags, magazines you didn't even know exist.
And in those large company dumpsters one can find all kinds of
info about the company, passwords, security lists, etc. etc.
Now, on to the diving.
There are a few security subjects you need to take care of before and
while going on a dive.
Make sure there is nobody around to see you, also make sure there is
no cameras around when you dive.
Kinda boring getting busted when diving.
Well, anyway, if someone should see you, make sure they won't be able
to identify you later on. Wear dark clothes at night.
If someone sees you, run as fast as you can, and try to always face away
from them. In that way they won't see your face, and won't be able to
give a positive ID on you.



14. Lockpicking Substitutes
---------------------------
Lockpicking often takes time, time which you do not have. Then a
substitute for lockpicking could be necessary. The
following methods may leave marks of destruction, but they are
good if either don't have the time or you simply cannot pick
locks(of course you MUST know how to pick a lock to become
a professional thief).




15. Shoplifting
---------------
Okay, shoplifting is Easy, just stuff the shit in you bag, backpack,
whatever, but getting out is harder, those sensors at the entrance
sets of and an alarm if the stuff you are lifting haven't got the
"chip" disabled. There are many ways to get through this sensor, and
here's three of them

The Most Risky Way
When no one is at the counter, put your merchandise on the counter,
then take it off, the counter has a machine that disables the "chip".
Stuff it back in your bag and walk out.

The First Less Risk Way
Get yourself one of those machines that disables the "chip" and
make it portable if you have to, take it to the shop, get some
stuff you like, use your machine on it and put it in your
bag, then walk out of the shop, and the alarm won't go off.

The Second Less Risk Way
Get yourself a lead bag(Aluminium foil might also work),
or a bag with lead-walls on the inside(easy to make) put the
stuff you want to lift in the bag and walk out, the sensors
at the entrance can't "see" through the lead shielding, something
that makes it think there is nothing there.

Another Less Risk Way
This method doesn't work in all shops. Many shops have equipped
their merchandise with "invisible" alarms.
Anyway, here's how to do it.
You need one of those metal clippers, or perhaps if you can get one,
one of those things they use in the store to cut off the alarms.
This is the type of alarm they most often use in cloth stores.
It is a big white chip or an ampoule filled with paint(sometimes
they even use both). Clip them off and do whatever you want
to with them,(ie. put them in someones pocket).



16. Worm Theft
--------------
You can also use the computer to steal a lot of money.
This works only if you already know how to hack your way
into a bank, or get a worm inside the banks computer system in
some other way. What you need to do is to make a worm which steals
only a few cents each time a transaction is performed, in that way it
is less likely the bank will detect the worm at all, because it
only steals such small amounts. The worm must also put the money
in many different accounts, because then if one of the accounts get's
taken down, the other account will still have a lot of money on them,
it will also make the worm harder to detect.
Here's a simple example on how much money you can make by doing this.
Let's say that 1000 people uses their accounts every hour, and that
the worm steals 5 cents for every transaction/withdrawal.
m = 1000x * 5 / 100
So, for one week that will be:
m = (1000 * 168) * 5 / 100
m = 168000 * 5 / 100
m = 8400 $
And that is not a bad weekly salary at all.



17. Word From The Author
------------------------
This handbook was written purely for educational purposes, and is not
intended for readers below the age of 18.
But after all, I don't care how old the readers are, and that is because
this book is put on the internet, and I do not care wether you read it
or not. IF the instructions in this book is followed, it may cause
in the serious fellony of making you a pro thief, if you are dedicated
enough that is, and it also may cause you to make alot of money, but
there of course is the risk of getting caught. Remember the old
saying: "There is always someone better".
Feel free to send me an e-mail if you have something which you think
should be added to the next release of the handbook, or if you
just want to say Hi.

-Acidous (acidous_@hotmail.com)
  17.05.03 (17. May, 2003)

