                        -=T I M E  T R A V E L=-

                             By Acid Pool



                          Written on 02-06-06




Here is what we do know. God and his creations. When I say creations I mean the Universe, angles, etc... We know that God also created time. We use time to keep up with the rotation of the earth. We apply the rotation of the earth in days, weeks, months, years. 

This writing is not about other beings on other planets but about traveling back and forth in time. We know that Eignstine come up with the theory of Time Travel. This topic can get deep and complex so I'm going to try and keep it simple.

We know that if there are other life on other planets it is light years from earth. If they come to earth to visit they must travel at the speed of light. We all know what happens when you travel at the speed of light. This goes back to Eignstine's theory of realtivity. E=MC2. If your traveling at the speed of light your air craft/space ship's mass increases, its size in the direction of travel decreases and time slows down. Kind of like in "Back to the Future." Remember how the car got so fast it just vannished? 

Lets make it simple. When "Aliens" travel from their galaxy they are traveling from another spot in the universe. I dont think they are so much traveling back and forth in time. We havnt done Time Travel yet or traveled at the speed of light so theories can get a mess. I believe if we were to travel to another galaxy and learn from other beings about their time and society we could learn more about the secrets of the uiniverse. Lets say we dont know what touching fire is like. To really understand fire we would have to touch it to fully understand it.

There is more to life than its physical properties. Scientists suggest that a particle called a tachyon may travel faster than the speed of light and cannot be slowed down. Some scientists believe that if tachyons could be detected and harnessed they would help us communicate anywhere in the universe instantaneously. So far, the particle has not been found. 
