Fun With Trains
by: SilenceR (Dan)
(Monday, July 31, 2000   1:40AM)


Hello, this is dedicated to anarchists like myself.

Stopping Trafic

You know those things, that come down when a trains passing by? Like those Arms, well, you can make them go up and down, VERY EASILY
(Freight trains preferably)

All you need is a friend (needed)  and a steel cable.

Place one end of the cable on one side of the tracks, then the other on the other end (Obviousley)  Then step on top of the cable you put on the tracks to ensure good contact between the cable and the track,  get your friend to step on the other side, and watch the thing go down!   HAHA Its great to place cynder blocks on top, and walk away, and if a train don't come over night to hit it off, the cars are backed up all night!  I've done this before, and heard about it on the news (They couldn't find the reason the arms were down)  So if you live near tracks, have fun!

The Train Stopper

Get a half mile of rocks on the tracks to start off, then get like a dummy, that looks human from a distance.  Then get like an old for sale sign (Steal one from your asshole neihbor whose moving out),  Place the sign on the tracks, so it stands up, then get the dummy, and lean it on the sign.  The train will be sure to stop.  

Also, if you are quick, play chicken with the train driver, but watch out, some of those guys have salt guns, they shoot you with a razor, and salt goes in your wound,  I've almost been hit.

Hurting The Train Driver

Get like a bb gun, or a good wrist rocket,  get some rocks, or rabbit shots.
Some of those drivers like to stick their arms out the window while they are drivin, shoot their arm, if you miss, no big deal, you got to break some glass at least.

Just Fun Shit

You know those boxes on the side of the tracks, who knows what their for,(Probly something important)  just get a few M80's or something, and a friend with a video camera,  get the M80, and light it in the box, and close the door (Get a sledge hammer if theres a lock, and club it off), then tape it, and go back home, and listen to the sweet sound it makes, and put it in slow motion.  Throw rocks at the wheels as its going by, and watch the sparks, get Molotov Cocktail bombs, and throw them inside the open train cars, and watch that shit burn as it travels down the tracks.






I am sure you can use my ideas to create your own ideas, but more people need to start messing with trains, because its real fun.

I like reading stuff from like 15 years ago, and reading about how the world was then,  I would like to see textfiles going forever, and I would like to see this file I've created 10-15 years from now, and hope to have people my age (16) read it in future generations.

Thanks for reading, have fun.  (Don't get caught)



-SilenceR
