waking up by wzd

So for the last week or so I've been waking up with this feeling that I'm
perhaps about to throw up- I never have, and I don't suspect I'm pregnant or
anything, but probably just have the flu.

My rat has been insisting on sleeping in my bed as-of-late, and has been
pissing or defecating in it at least once an evening. And I'll get all mad and
throw him out, but he'll just be back there in the morning, if not 5 minutes
later.

I'm writing this for TRIPE magazine! because I have given up on life.

So I'm wondering if this could have anything to do with why I've been so ill,
and wether or not I should be getting up anytime soon.

My curtain rail fell off the wall over a week ago and I still haven't hammered
the fucking thing back in, so the light is streaming freely through my window.

My dad is in the kitchen, yelling at his phone.
'*NO* GARY! YOU JUST *SHIT* ON *EVERYONE*!'
bla bla..

If there's one thing more pointless than yelling at people, it's probably
yelling at people over the phone- especially since most people who want to
preserve their hearing will just hold the reciever a good distance away from
their ear. Those of us sitting in the room next to the person who's yelling at
their mobile, unfortunately, do not have this option.

I've been getting these stomach pains more frequently lately- strange stabbing
crunching pains that get worse when I move- my professional guess is that I
have gastro-intestinal flu, but that's as professional a diagnosis as I'm
going to get seeing as I have the mad fear of doctors.

I watched 'Rosemary's Baby' the other day, and that didn't help either, now
that I'm all paranoid about having the antichrist in me 'n all. Although I
don't remember having sex with the devil, and I was told that men can't get
pregnant although I think they made Arnold Schwarznegr pregnant for that one
movie he did so that's got me a bit worried. And I haven't seen the movie, so
I don't know what to expect, but I hope it's just the flu and not anything
fatal. I hate getting up, I don't want to have to move again, ever.
