Anarchy n : a state of lawlessness and disorder (usually resulting from a 
failure of government)
Absence of any form of political authority.
Political disorder and confusion.
Absence of any cohesive principle, such as a common standard or purpose.

This is what webster defines an anarchy, a place without government and most 
people who hear anarchy think chaos i mean who says it means it i mean look 
at any country today and say that their great government is helping them. In 
america you are not allowed to even self medicate. how is that free? how is 
it wrong? is there another force in the government saying we shouldnt i mean 
why if i think differant and precieve past the wall of lies you government 
says is the very truth and your plop out of your mouths like the latest 
gossip. if you attack the wrong your the right but when the government is 
wrong your always wrong i mean how many of your friends were busted how many 
people are attacked by cops a day? 90 100 more than that do not trust the 
state fuck the state fuck the law makers who make laws without the peoples 
consent. The government lies to you and like the sheep your are you follow 
what the government says is wrong is wrong and they say i am a nutcase. why 
is is because i can figure out 1+1 or is it the fact i know when they are 
bull shitting look around grab a book of us law and read and dont say hmm 
cool tv time actrully ask why is this illegal and open your god danm mind

The Patriot Act
this act basicly says you are just a peon to the government and if you read 
it over it says any offcial of the government is better than you. now isnt 
this the land of equality now turning into a totaltarian society. you worry 
about your next zoloft pill while the government raises taxes on everything 
from 50 cent soda to 25cent gum *now 65 and 35* inflation this and inflation 
that you r government spends more money on the war on drugs every year open 
your eyes man in todays law A POLICE OFFICER HAS MORE RIGHTS THAN YOU DO AND 
HES SUPPOSED TO BE SERVING YOU. now i ask who here is not affraid of a 
police officer or gets the fuck away from one on the moment of seeing them. 
who likes cops besides your government you know what do they do they are 
like the dogs to the shepards who controll you. look the fuck out and run 
the government is next gonna try to take away your gun *see clinton 
adminstration* and then we are total slaves

+++Pyromanac+++
"Live By the Law, Die By Its sword"

