GREY INITIATION

There are only two ceremonies associated with becoming a member of the 
Order. One is the 'answer three questions' ritual. The questions can 
take many forms, but usually it involves something silly, and yet 
thought provoking. The other ceremony involves an interesting phenomenon 
sometimes known as "the infilling of the Force," and anciently known as 
the Lumen Naturae. 

The initiation ritual takes exactly 24 hours from beginning to end. The 
inductee is given an herbal mix reputed to cause a loosening of the 
barriers in the mind which normally are used to repress the Dark side. 
This includes inhibitions (both instinctive and learned), psychic 
'engrams' (often placed in the mind while the Jedi was still in the 
creche), and fears. Deeply disturbing, when these fears begin to 
surface, the initiate is closeted in a private space.

Afterwards the inductee is brought before other members, sometimes more 
but never less than three. Whatever activities take place the overall 
effort is to meditate. For the inductee, this is a period of 
'stretching' the mind, using various excercises into the Dark side 
within, without losing the connection to the Light. The ultimate goal is 
to become a bridge between them. They are called The Grey Exercises, for 
obvious reasons.

During the final hours all participants increase their meditative levels 
gradually until the group-mind is at a peak. The inductee's psyche is 
stripped bare of all defenses. The Dark side -- potentialities, latent 
irrationalities, imaginative fantasies are all exposed to the group 
mind. At this point the inductee will have some deep revelation 
pertinent to overcoming their own fear of and attraction to the Dark 
side. 

The signal to end the ceremony comes when one member begins a movement 
in the Force, which is carried through by the others. The initiate 
experiences an "infilling of the Force," which often includes physical 
manifestations such as involuntary levitation and phosphorescent 
displays. The lights are kept low during this period (probably so the 
other members can enjoy it-- it is reported to sometimes be 
spectacular). The body of the initiate is literally over-saturated with 
the Force-- and if this sounds groovy to you, then maybe you'd enjoy 
having a million volts go through you some time. 

Among the changes to be expected after the initiation will be a 
telepathic bond shared with the others in the room. The bond is 
consistent to all initiates, and is no different from a Jedi telepathic 
bond, except that it is shared only with other members of the Order 
(with some limits due to distance). As with a Master and Padawan, it 
takes focus and a little effort, but the ability is undeniable. 

To a large extent, the entire Order consists of a network of Force 
bondings, and the Force is not static but moves through and between 
bodies. Thus individuals who have bonded in this way are connected to 
all others who've undergone the rite.

The physics of the bond created during a Grey Initiation rite are 
difficult to pinpoint. It is similar to the Jedi bond, yet more limited 
in scope; thus the mechanics are different. It is believed by some that 
because the initiate allows themselves such deep scrutiny by other 
members, an incredibly strong bond of trust is formed. The ability to 
send telepathic images and words may be a byproduct of this level of 
intimacy. 

However, because the body of the initiate undergoes such intense 
chemical reactions from the infilling of the Force (the metabolism alone 
increases to about ten times its normal speed for a period of at least 
ten minutes, which forces intense chemical reactions throughout the 
bodies of any and all species), one must expect that the brain is 
effected to some degree. This may also explain the subsequent telepathic 
bond. The bond is said to be 'permanent' but that has not been verified.

It has been pointed out that such a telepathic bond between Grey Jedi 
may be a form of insurance against betrayal by any of its members. It is 
not, however, possible for the Grey to be 'mind-readers' so much as they 
are 'message-receptors' to eachother. A strong, directed thoughtform is 
needed, rather than simple curiosity. Jedi almost always have training 
in telepathic abilities (the so-called Jedi Mind Trick, for example). 
These abilities may be enhanced. 

The limits of the telepathic bond have not yet been determined. 

