THE WISDOM OF THE JEDI

In this dangerous era, a Jedi must always be prepared for conflict. 

To know where evil grows and permit it to flourish is to accept 
responsibility for all that follows. Sometimes you have to listen to the 
silence. And give yourself the time to understand. 

There is a thing inherent and natural, which existed before heaven and 
earth. Motionless and fathomless, it stands alone and never changes; it 
pervades everywhere and never becomes exhausted. It may be regarded as 
the creator of the universe. I do not know its name, I call it the 
Force, and I name it as supreme.

Don't you know that if you do evil, evil will come back to you? Out of 
the Great Void came the universe, its galaxies, star systems, and suns. 
Everything that exists, and will ever exist, was spawned from the 
primordial plasma of time's beginning. Over billions of years planets 
formed and life arose through a steady progression of increasingly 
complex organisms. Woven into and intertwined with all of this --- from 
the smallest molecule to the largest star --- was the Force. As 
civilizations grew upon these newly formed planets --- newly formed on a 
celestial time scale, that is --- They began to sense, if only 
subconsciously at first, this mystical energy. Over the millennia the 
Force has been called by an uncountable number of names: The Unity, the 
Way, the Power, Magic. All hint at one aspect or another of the Force's 
all-encompassing presence, but none completely reflect its true nature. 
And perhaps none shall, for the Force defies explanation. At times it 
seems dualistic, yet it has no separate components. Most prominent among 
the contradictions is the fact that the Force has two aspects, the light 
and the dark, yet without one the other would cease to exist. For most 
people these concepts hang well out of reach, celestial nonsense better 
left unconsidered. But for the select few, the Force is everything.

The Jedi is a vessel for the channeling of the positive energies of the 
Force. This power is not something that is derived or conjured, however, 
but ever present in the universe.

Jedi minstrels, a group known for its epic storytelling. The minstrels 
prefer to weave their tales as if the occurrences were happening at that 
moment of the recounting.

The truth or falsity of any individual event will 
forever remain a mystery. Jedi stand for peace; they must use their 
weapons only as a last resort. Concentrate, Feel the Force flow. Not 
outside or inside, but part of all. Through the Force you may see many 
things. It reaches across time and space. Other places, the future, the 
past. Old friends long gone. Size does not matter. A Jedi seeks not to 
know the answers, but to understand the questions. To know is not what 
is important to a Jedi. Even to learn is not important. What is 
important is to study. There is a tale among us, a legend preserved by 
the old tellers from the farthest distance of our past . It is said that 
upon the edge of the Earth at the end of time stands a lone man who 
holds the meaning of it all . It is said that he has mastered all skill 
and prowess that we desire, all restraint and calm, and has become 
perfection --- passion and mastery like onto the poised grandeur of 
mountains. And it is said, should ever one of us seek him out . and 
contest with him, we will learn the measure of our worth, in defeat or 
triumph. Therefore we are a seeking people. In each heart among us beats 
a yearning for this test and the knowledge it offers. Yet the path, 
which leads to him, is unknown, has never been known. It is said that 
this path must not be known --- that it may only be found by one who 
knows without knowledge and has not come seeking the thing he seeks. You 
are that one. The Force is a Jedi's ally, and a powerful ally it is. 
Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. We 
are luminous beings . not this crude matter. You must feel the Force 
around you. A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious 
mind. A Jedi's strength flows from the Force. Don't give into hate. That 
leads to the dark side. We cling to many truths; most depend greatly on 
our own point of view. If you do not believe you will succeed. You will 
fail. Fear and confusion are some of the weapons of the Dark side. A 
Jedi must learn to sense the tension between the light and the dark. You 
must remain strong in your commitment. You must preserver, and you must 
always embrace the light side. Do not believe that you can experiment 
with the darkness and come away unscathed. The taint of the dark side 
will remain with you forever after, and the temptations to use that evil 
power will come all that more often and all that more strongly. I say 
these things not to scare you, nor to dissuade you from your training. 
On the Contrary, I wish only to make you stronger in the light by 
offering you the knowledge that so many before you spent their lives 
discovering. Remember that knowledge and the Force will always be your 
shield against the darkness. Do not resist the Role the Force wishes you 
to play, for things are not always what they seem. A Jedi must rely on 
introspection to discover his destiny rather then on outside 
intervention. A Jedi who tries with all his being never fails. It is the 
Jedi who gives up that fails --- Fails not only himself, but the Force 
as well. When you demand something of the Force. Then by your own 
actions, you have proven that you are not ready to commune with the 
Force. One must surrender oneself to the Force and allow it to decide 
your destiny. There is no difficulty. There is only Effort. He who knows 
others is wise; He who knows himself is enlightened. He who conquers 
others is strong; He who conquers himself is mighty. He who knows 
contentment is rich. He who keeps on his course with energy has will. He 
who does not deviate from his proper place will long endure. He who may 
die but not perish has longevity. The Force is our power and our ally; 
The Force has always been with us. That is its nature. It surrounds us 
and penetrates us. It binds the universe together. Those who become 
sensitive to its presence can learn to use it .. For good or for evil. 
Every action, every seemingly insignificant effort --- no matter the 
source --- influenced the future, intertwining and building upon one 
other to create a new state of the universe, which lasted in such 
equilibrium for less then a moment, when it is shattered by the next 
series of actions. A Jedi must learn many things among these things are 
the skills needed to control one's own inner Force. A Jedi with these 
skills learns mastery over the functions of his body and harmony with 
nature. A Jedi must also learn the skills needed to sense the Force in 
other things beyond the Jedi's own body. The Jedi learns to feel the 
bonds that connect all living things; this gives the Jedi the ability to 
understand how all things are interconnected. A Jedi must also learn the 
skills need to change the distribution and nature of the Force. A Jedi 
must learn how to move things with their mind, help others control their 
own Force, or change the Force in the Jedi's own Body, As well as change 
the perceptions of others and make them come to incorrect conclusions. 
Serenity allows a Jedi to view the universe in its true form rather then 
in the shaded perceptions that most others see it in. A wise man always 
walks with his head bowed. Evil began in a time before recorded history, 
when magicians made themselves into kings . and gods . using the power 
of the dark side of the Force. The weak-minded have ever been ready to 
obey one who wields great power. Those who learned the powers of the 
dark side were quick to exploit this weakness --- to make war. Again and 
again the dark side has surged forth, like a storm . devouring whole 
nations and entire civilizations. Those who mastered dark power became 
dark power. They unleashed destruction, for no other reason then selfish 
gain. Some of them, I am ashamed to say, were Jedi. The penetrating 
light dissolves the dark. The gentle wind disperses the gathering 
clouds, leaving the sky clear and serene. The tiny soft roots of the 
wood pierce the hardest rock, breaking up those dark intrigues, which 
shun the light of day. All the while, the whispering music of the wind, 
and the gradual uncurling of the leaves produce tranquility and peace, 
appearing soft, gentle, un-threatening. The results of gentle 
penetration by the wind are less striking then the effects of aggressive 
force, but more enduring and more complete. This principle, wielded by a 
Jedi, is powerful and irresistible. In this age of conflict, law and 
order is often enforced by those who fight only for pay, or by those who 
are willing to seek justice through force. Even after you have mastered 
the basic tenets of the Jedi Way, and you have learned many of its 
techniques, you have only taken the smallest of steps into a greater 
world. Much remains for you to experience. The Force possesses many 
subtleties that hide from the uninitiated, revealing themselves only 
after years of practice. These will come in time, but you must at least 
begin to prepare yourself for this part of the journey. One of the most 
important concepts to assimilate concerns the difference between the 
light and the dark aspects of the Force. Many foolishly believe that 
each is immediately recognizable. Here the light there the dark. But it 
is not so. The two have no separation --- you should not consider them 
distinct entities. What links these two sides of the force is a nebulous 
area of gray wherein the allegiance of any given person is not 
immediately apparent. The light and the dark stand at opposite ends of 
the spectrum, as beacons respectively. But the multitudes of people lie 
somewhere in the center, some leaning toward the light, others falling 
toward the dark. These are the people who must be protected, who must be 
shown compassion and understanding, who must be guided to the light. 
These are the people who can be brought together beneath our luminescent 
banner to help us defeat the dark side. A Jedi should realize that no 
one species be it humans or another is more important then any other. 
The world and the universe thrives on diversity; nature is but an 
amalgam of elements randomly assembled into finite entities, people, 
creatures, and objects that quickly fade and rise again in new forms. 
This concept, then, is the heart of all. It is the central tenet 
required to understand the universe. All is one, and one, therefore is 
all. Duality does not exist in this statement. This is how you must 
think. This is what guides you, what tells you how to conduct yourself. 
This is the Force, the energy that lives in everything, that is 
existence itself --- You must concentrate on gaining understanding in 
this concept. It may seem impossible. Many Jedi, even some of the 
greatest Masters, will devote years to this very issue. Do not give up. 
Some Jedi can actually speak with animals, forming a bond with them that 
can often be unnerving to those who can't. The Jedi is guided by what he 
feels and not by what he sees. The hard and strong will fall. The soft 
and weak will overcome. The truth often sounds paradoxical. So-called 
"sentience" does not equate with importance in the structure of nature. 
All creatures --- no matter their size, no matter their intelligence, no 
matter their station --- all beings in this universe have the same 
impact on this very moment. If a ladybug in Vermont flaps its wings, a 
star two dozen light-years away may erupt in a spectacular supernova. 
This is how closely bound all entities are. Remember what you have heard 
so many times before: the Force penetrates all existence and links it 
together, making every element dependent on every other element. You 
must bear this concept in mind whenever you come to a crossroads. Let 
this understanding guide you; let the Force grant you the wisdom to 
choose the correct path. Though what is about to be said may seem 
obvious at first, listen closely for the true meaning behind and within 
the words. Somewhere therein lies important understanding. As 
civilization advances, its technology becomes more intricate, enabling 
sentient life to break through one boundary after another. First 
learning to traverse the world on beasts. But eventually each society 
develops machines that can propel its members over land and liquid, or 
high above the planets surface through the atmosphere. These vessels now 
bring members of those civilizations together into a single community, 
where ideas and beliefs may be shared. Unfortunately, so, to, does war 
erupt between some that would never have meet had they remained confined 
to their native lands. Notice that technology in itself does not possess 
good or evil. It does not have a light or dark nature. Those who use 
these devices may cause a vehicle, a ship, or even a weapon to seem to 
belong to one side of the Force or the other, but rarely do these items 
contain such an essence. This distinction is one of the keys to 
unlocking the secret of existence; remember it well. A Jedi always takes 
advantage of the tools at hand. The ways of the dark side are often 
subtle and deceptive, so those who cling to the light must constantly be 
on guard. Many technological devices can aid in this task, especially 
those involving communication and healing. There are weapons, as well 
--- but these must be used only in times of dire need when lives hang in 
the balance and the Jedi must engage in battle to stave off the dark 
side. As a Jedi you may be appointed the guardian of a system. Anyone of 
the countless systems in use. To effectively watch over your charge, you 
must understand it, as well as its history and its functions. You must 
come to know the systems as well as you know yourself. If not, your 
efforts will be wasted. So how are you to know which system to research? 
Study them all. While a Jedi may be a force for peace he must remain 
vigilant against evil. Many people who do not take the time to 
investigate it thoroughly too often reject the Jedi Way, all to quickly. 
Its growth-orientation, instinct-to-spirit spectrum, and transpersonal 
nature earn it instant dismissal because it is seen as "too mystical" or 
"The foolish fancy of those who are to heavily influenced by a series of 
films." Also the fact that it is a tradition that must be experienced 
--- it cannot be learned from books. Cause many who are unwillingly to 
take the leap required of them to realizing this psychology in their 
lives frequently attack it in word and print with remarkable lack of 
understanding. The Jedi have been, and continue to be, widely 
misunderstood and viciously attacked due to their insights into the 
nature of reality and their creativity. It is one of those unfortunate 
facts of life that insight and creativity have never been welcomed by 
societies at large; the majority of people seem to prefer, instead, 
theories and lifestyles that imprison them. It is easier to live within 
the dictates of someone else's philosophy than live with the fear 
incurred through developing freedom, individuality, and personal wisdom. 
The more you rely on technology to do the work for you, the farther you 
get from the essence of the creative power of your own channeled 
intentions. Be aware that technology can blind you to perceptions of 
broader realities. As a Jedi you must learn to control your emotions. 
This does not mean to ignore them. On the contrary, you should make 
certain to understand how you are feeling at all times. Your task is to 
observe these thoughts and emotions, not to blindly act on them. Step 
back for a moment from the cage that is your corporeal existence. Enter 
the vastness of the Force, where all beings and objects exist as one. 
There you will discover the answers to all your queries, where you will 
find guidance, where you will finally recognize your role in the 
universe. Throughout the adventures of your limited life you must always 
come to this place to find the true path, the way of light. Few beings 
receive the Force's call to join the Jedi, this band of scholars, 
healers, and warriors. And of those who begin the journey, only a 
dedicated few eventually become full-fledged Jedi. Premonitions and 
Visions: Some Jedi experience premonitions, dreams and visions. 
Sometimes these events seem to be little more than random, 
impressionistic images, but at other times they are crystal clear 
glimpses of past, present, or possible future events. There will be much 
debate as to the cause of these phenomena --- perhaps it's the Jedi's 
subconscious at work, or perhaps it's simply a different way of sensing 
tremors in the Force --- but these occurrences can warn a Jedi of 
impending danger or summon the Jedi to "crisis areas" where their unique 
abilities are needed. The Jedi Way is more then just a system of 
techniques for controlling, sensing, and altering the Force. It is a 
philosophy of existence in which the individual sees his true nature as 
a part of a larger whole. The Jedi seeks to live in harmony with the 
universe, focusing on discipline and awareness to reach his goal. Many 
are the temptations to grasp at ephemeral equilibriums, to create 
conflict between nature and the mind, to fall onto easier paths. This 
the Jedi strives to avoid at all costs, no matter how dear. A Jedi 
should focus his efforts on creating harmony between all beings. They 
detest violence of any sort; reluctantly engaging in combat only after 
all other attempts at conflict resolution have failed. A Jedi must 
always act from a position of peace and understanding, never out of fear 
or anger. Using the Force for selfish purposes --- self-gain, egotism, 
even convenience --- crosses the boundary between the light and the dark 
sides. A Jedi must not allow evil to take place once they become aware 
of its working. To remain aloof in situations where a Jedi's 
intervention would prevent the dark side from attaining another foothold 
is the same as helping it do so. A Jedi must constantly be wary of his 
path, making certain he does not stray toward the dark side, but remains 
firm in the light. While the dark side does not outclass the light side 
in any way, it does offer a seemingly quicker --- yet more costly --- 
path to power. The dark side thrives on black thoughts, words, and 
actions, inducing beings to engage in such wickedness in exchange for 
ability to wield the Force to commit subsequent evil acts. Often the 
darkness manifests itself in a subtle way to mask its presence from an 
individual as it coaxes him to stray further from the light. Only after 
the being has performed the act does the dark side reveal itself, 
pointing out how simple and easy power comes to those who fulfill its 
wishes. With such black-hearted deeds, the being steps further down the 
path to full immersion in the dark side, losing most of his former self 
in the process. Remember we ALL have darkness within us. It is what 
makes us living beings, bound by the Force. We can never brush that 
darkness away. It is within us always. We can only learn to control it, 
like a dangerous beast that must be kept upon a chain. The first goal of 
a Jedi is to maintain order and further the cause of peace. 

Being a Jedi 
will not be an easy thing. Though the very name conjures images of 
gallant heroism, Jedi themselves do what they must for the good of all 
life. Neither embracing adventure nor avoiding it, Jedi bring peace and 
justice wherever beings have lost their way. Jedi wield the energy they 
call the Force. They use it to perceive and affect the world around them 
in ways incomprehensible to others. The Jedi should be a defender and 
protector of justice. By his example, belief in the Force will be 
accepted if not always understood. There are some beings attuned to the 
Force. Whether they understand it or not, they can feel the Force 
flowing through them. Of those that are sensitive to the Force, Any who 
study it's ways can learn to manipulate its energy. The Jedi fall into 
this category, using their knowledge of the Force to give them their 
powers. But they are not the only ones. Understanding of the Force 
manifests in many ways. Even those who don't believe in the Force and 
aren't particularly attuned to its flow can call upon the Force without 
understanding what they are doing. When a stroke of amazing luck occurs, 
or fate seems to be on their side and helps them accomplish a difficult 
objective, it is the force coming to their aid. A Jedi is aware, but he 
does not waste time in mindless contemplation. When action is required, 
a Jedi Acts. It is a foolish Jedi who thinks he has the strength of 
character to walk the path of the dark side and not be touched by it; 
that he can use the power of the dark side for the benefit of the 
universe. The deep subconscious of a Force-sensitive person is shielded 
by a protective barrier, which prevents another Force wielder from 
penetrating his or her inner mind. This shield pushes violently back at 
the intruder. This "shield" is an involuntary defense mechanism 
maintained by every Force-sensitive person. The magnitude of the 
backlash generated by the shield depends on the person's strength in the 
Force. The dark side philosophy is very different from the Jedi Code. 
Whereas a Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, a dark side 
user uses the Force to bend the universe to his will. The Jedi 
manipulates the Force passively, while in a state of calm and control. 
The dark side user gives himself over to his passions, and channels the 
Force by harnessing the power of anger, fear, hate, love, and jealousy. 
To use any dark side power is to relinquish any claim to call oneself a 
Jedi. Even the minor powers of the dark side are extremely dangerous for 
Jedi to use. Since they lead to the darkness. While it is true that a 
Jedi uses his power only for defense, never for attack, it is equally 
true that a Jedi must nevertheless prepare with great vigilance, for 
only the Force knows when you may face your greatest battle. The Force 
is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy field created by all 
living things. It surrounds us, penetrates us. It binds the galaxy 
together. The mysterious energy field known as the Force permeates the 
universe. It is created by life, found everywhere, a part of everything. 
It lies beyond that which can normally be perceived, yet a few beings 
know how to feel its ebb and flow. With practice and study, Jedi learn 
to manipulate that energy, gaining control over life, thought and 
matter. The Force is the foundation of the beliefs of the Jedi. A Jedi's 
aim is not to encourage fighting but to minimize it and curtail it. A 
Jedi who kills innocent people, causes unnecessary or gratuitous injury, 
or uses the Force while angry or hateful is already well on his path to 
being a servant of the dark side. The Force is an essential part of 
nature --- like energy or matter --- but it has yet to be quantified and 
analyzed. The Force is not to be understood in the same manner as the 
physical qualities of the universe. The laws of physics are observable; 
technology is predictable and readily controlled. The Force is neither 
controlled nor controlling --- it is a part of life itself; asking if it 
controls or can be controlled is like asking if a person controls his 
component cells or if they control him. It is not known whether the 
Force has always been, came about as life evolved into intelligence, or 
if it coerced the evolution of intelligence. To the Jedi, it does not 
matter. It's enough to know that the Force is. Even those who don't 
believe in the Force can unconsciously manipulate it and be manipulated 
by it. They may not be truly "Sensitive" to its flow, but they still 
call upon the Force without even realizing. These people seem to have an 
almost unnatural ability to accomplish their objectives, whether their 
intent is good or evil, or somewhere in between. The skeptical call it 
luck. The unbelievers may call it destiny or fate. It is the Force. A 
Call to Action: A Jedi cannot allow evil to occur by inaction --- A Jedi 
who voluntarily stands by and allows evil to be committed is encouraging 
the forces of darkness. Jedi are bound by the actions of those around 
them. It is not acceptable for a Jedi to associate with those who 
willfully commit evil. When a Jedi is confronted by a situation where 
evil is being committed, the Jedi must act to prevent that evil. There 
are a variety of means at the Jedi's disposal --- persuasion, creating a 
distraction, armed action or simple mind tricks --- but intervention is 
necessary. Tremors in the Force: The Jedi lives in harmony with the 
Force, sensing its flow, drawing upon its energies . and sometimes 
perceiving "disturbances" and "presences" in that flow. The actions of 
others can cause disturbances in the Force. A lone individual's 
impression might be like a candle flickering in the wind, while a great 
tragedy or act of great good may be like a sudden burst of lightning. 
Those who manipulate the Force often and with great power shine like the 
light of a sun. Each time a Jedi draws on the Force, there is a slight 
tremor as the Force is subtly altered. If the Force is used sparingly 
and with harmony in the natural order of things, such tremors are slight 
and barely detectable even at close ranges. Those who frequently use the 
Force cause many, many tremors. When the Force is relied upon --- used 
constantly to bend the universe to fit the will of the user --- such 
tremors may be great enough that Jedi even at great distances may detect 
them. Those who use the Force as a crude instrument of power are very 
likely to come to the attention of others. New Jedi students are 
particularly likely to be detected. In their desire to master their 
powers, they often manipulate the Force . yet their dabbling, if to 
frequent, draw the attentions of other nearby Force-users. The dark side 
is perhaps the greatest threat a Jedi can face. It's always lurking in 
the shadows, a quick and easy temptation for an undisciplined Jedi 
filled with anger and frustration. The Jedi must be honorable and noble 
since Force-sensitives who act ambiguously are easily corrupted to the 
dark side. A Jedi does not grasp at power. A Jedi is not a dominator, 
nor an oppressor. To grasp for power is to abandon the ways of the 
Force. Such a one ceases to know the Force, except in his dark side. To 
grasp at power is to take up the path that leads to destruction. The 
Dominator is the enemy, yes. But the Jedi does not use the dark side of 
the dominator against him. Thinking is closer to trying then doing. 
Changing the future has got to require action, not just planning for 
action. While a Jedi acts in defense and not out of aggression, that 
doesn't mean aggressively putting a defense into place is bad. Everyone 
is equal because the Force is in everyone. Jedi should not reject or 
look down or up to anyone because of social class, race, and creed 
because these things are artificial and because they stop the Jedi from 
seeing others as the Force sees them. In all matters success depends on 
preparation; without preparation there will always be failure. When what 
is to be said is previously determined, there will be no difficulty 
determined, there will be no occasion for vexation. When general 
principles are previously determined there will be no perplexity to know 
what to do.

MAKING THE WILL SINCERE

What is meant by "making the will sincere" is that one should not 
deceive oneself. This sincerity should be like the sincerity with which 
we dislike a bad smell or love what is beautiful. This is called 
satisfying your own conscience. Therefore a Jedi is watchful over 
himself even when he is alone. People usually lose their sense of 
judgment toward those whom they love, toward those whom they despise or 
dislike, toward those whom they fear, toward those whom they pity and 
towards those whom they pamper or are proud of. Therefore, there are few 
people in this world who can see the bad in those whom they like and see 
the good in those whom they dislike. As Jedi we seek to overcome these 
habits in ourselves. Thus seeing the truth in all people. A Jedi first 
searches himself before he demands it of others, and makes sure first 
that he himself is not a transgressor before he finds transgressions in 
others. Jedi should try to avoid completely four things: Arbitrariness 
of opinion, dogmatism, narrow-mindedness and egotism. It is difficult to 
see examples of true Jedi. Everybody errs a little on the side of his 
weakness. Therefore it is easy for others to point out the shortcomings 
of those who follow the Jedi way. Then it is to point out their good 
qualities. Humility is near to moral discipline; simplicity of character 
is near to the Jedi Way; and loyalty is near to sincerity of heart. If a 
man will carefully cultivate these things in his conduct, he may still 
err a little, but he won't be far from the standard of the Jedi Way. For 
with humility or pious attitude, a man seldom commits errors; with 
sincerity of heart, a man is generally reliable; and with simplicity of 
character, he is usually generous. You will seldom make a mistake if you 
use these points to begin from. A Jedi has no worry and no fear. For if 
he looks within himself and is sure that he has done right in all 
things, what does he have to fear or worry about? A Jedi should be 
ashamed if his words are better then his actions. If you have the 
insight to perceive a truth, but not the wisdom to keep to it, you will 
lose it again, though you have discovered it. A Jedi Knight must Remain 
Focused. Mastery of the Force requires that one purge all unnecessary 
activities from daily life. A monk cannot fulfill the Jedi Way if he 
does not manifest compassion without and persistently store up courage 
within. And if a warrior does not manifest courage on the outside and 
hold enough compassion within his heart to burst his chest, he cannot 
become a Jedi. Therefore, the monk pursues courage with the warrior as 
his model, and the warrior pursues the compassion of the monk. A Jedi 
Knight seeks excellence in all endeavors, martial and otherwise, seeking 
strength to be used in the service of justice, rather than in personal 
aggrandizement. A Jedi strives to excel physically, mentally, 
emotionally and spiritually, and can put these in motion instantly. This 
requires discipline, patience and perfect practice, for a Jedi is always 
mindful of what lies behind and what lies ahead. 

Being a Jedi Knight often means choosing the more difficult path, the 
personally expensive one. Be prepared to make personal sacrifices in 
service of the precepts and people you value. At the same time, a Jedi 
Knight should seek wisdom.This also means taking the side of truth in 
all matters, rather than seeking the expedient lie. Seek the truth 
whenever possible, but remember to temper justice with mercy, for the 
pure truth can bring grief. However, it must also be noted that to a 
Jedi, to be brave in battle proves nothing, as bravery itself proves 
nothing. A Jedi should be prepared to put aside fear, regret, and 
uncertainty and either act, retreat, surrender or perish.

Value first the contributions of others; do not boast of your own 
accomplishments, let others do this for you. Tell the deeds of others 
before your own, according them the renown rightfully earned through 
virtuous deeds. In this way the office of Jedi Knighthood is well done 
and glorified, helping not only the gentle spoken of but also all who 
call themselves Jedi Knights.

Seek great stature of character by holding to the virtues and duties of 
a Jedi Knight, realizing that though the ideals cannot be reached, the 
quality of striving towards them ennobles the spirit, growing the 
character from dust towards the heavens. Nobility also has the tendency 
to influence others, offering a compelling example of what can be done 
in the service of rightness.

It is true that actions speak louder than words. However, behind every 
action is motive and a purpose. Without a sound motive and purpose, 
action has no meaning, no destination, and lacks a foundation. Action 
without motive and purpose does nothing other than to move for the sake 
of moving, beating the air to appear to doing something, when in fact is 
doing nothing, the proverbial spinning wheels in the mud. A Jedi moves 
with the Force. He meditates upon the Will of the Force. A Jedi's 
actions are firmly based upon a deep motivation to serve the Force of 
Light, and is deeply rooted in purpose. There is no wasted movement, or 
the need for action when none is required, for to a Jedi, action means 
nothing without a pure motive, or a sound purpose. A Jedi's mind is a 
calm ocean, like a sea of glass. He realizes that it is in conquering 
the tides of the emotions as well as reactions to stimulus that allows 
the Jedi to be victorious in all things, for he is vessel for the Force, 
an extension of the Will of the Force. This inner stillness requires 
much discipline: mentally, emotionally, spiritually, and physically. A 
Jedi by nature is highly disciplined in all levels of his being, that in 
the fiery moment where the Force must be released to defend self or 
others who deserve that loyalty, the action is a clear extension of many 
years of training and inner discipline. It is sometimes necessary for a 
Jedi to practice discretion. Jedi do not actively interfere with the 
lives of the common people. Jedi stand for order and justice; however, 
Jedi prioritize and streamline their involvement, and do not allow the 
misdeeds of the few to interfere with the conscious direction received 
as to the Will of the Force and how their office as Jedi helps brings 
these into fruition. The goal of the Jedi should be to create and 
preserve an atmosphere where justice can flourish, rather than try to 
create justice themselves. A byword of Jedi could be, "I may not always 
agree with your choices, but I will defend your right to choose with my 
very life." Being a Jedi Being a Jedi involves a commitment within the 
person and a devotion to higher ideals. While a diplomat may choose the 
lesser of two evils or a scoundrel the more profitable of the two, a 
Jedi is held to a higher standard, and with his greater abilities comes 
increased responsibility. The Goal Of Peace The Jedi works first for 
peace, acting without consideration of costs to themselves or with an 
eye toward personal power or gain. Peace is not the result of a strong 
emotional drive (for emotions cloud the correct use of the Force) but 
rather a clear, dispassionate goal for the Jedi. Peace born of anger is 
no peace at all, and cannot last. Individual Jedi strive for the goal of 
peace without emotion both within and without. The Jedi works toward his 
goal with unflinching devotion, untroubled by strong emotions. As a 
result, powerful Jedi have a cool, detached demeanor that some mistake 
for apathy. Situations that challenge the Jedi often involve combat, 
particularly mindless combat for no clear purpose (this doesn't just 
mean physical combat). For a Jedi, peace is much more then a cessation 
of war. For a Jedi to meet this goal, he must look to root causes and 
complaints, and to deal with basic conflicts between the participants. A 
Jedi who wins the battle but sacrifices the ability to judge 
dispassionately has lost his own personal war. The Goal Of Knowledge 
Ignorance kills as surely as anger. A little knowledge might be 
dangerous, but a lack of knowledge is deadly. Ignorance of others, 
ignorance of facts, and ignorance of truth sets individuals apart and 
leads to contention and violence. A Jedi spreads knowledge that unifies, 
binding peoples and countries together. This knowledge begins with the 
Jedi knowing their own capabilities, strengths, and weaknesses. Pride 
can cloud the mind and make them blind to their own flaws, which might 
be exploted by others. Failure causes doubt, which causes the Jedi to be 
less capable of realizing their own strengths. Jedi continually test 
themselves to see where the limits of their abilities lie, not as a goal 
in itself, but as a means to the goal of better understanding 
themselves. The Goal of Serenity In striving for serenity, the Jedi 
seeks more then just remaining levelheaded in a crisis. He finds a calm 
place within, and then projects that inner peace outward to affect 
others by word and deed. This serenity grants the Jedi a firm resolve 
The center of serenity is moderation in all things. Excessive emotions, 
whether positive or negative, upset a Jedi's touch with the Force and 
create an imbalance within the self, similar to an imbalance within the 
Force. Challenges to a Jedi's serenity are many. The forces of the dark 
side always encourage the Jedi to give into hate, anger, and rage, and 
facilitate those feelings by giving the Jedi good reason to feel those 
emotions. Those close to the Jedi might be targets of attacks, or the 
ideals of the Jedi themselves might be sullied. The seduction of the 
dark side is more insidious, becuase less powerful or less positive 
emotions might be harnessed to provoke a rash action. Concern, 
affection, and even love can upset the balance of a Jedi's serenity and 
force the Jedi to choose between personal desires and the good of the 
Order. The Unity of the Force The Jedi Code represents the embodiment of 
the universal nature of the Force. The Jedi see themselves as the 
guardians of society, holding themselves to a high moral standard. They 
are role models, leading by example. The Jedi do not desire to rule, but 
rather wish to instruct so that society as a whole acts with greater 
justice and equality. The Force is not inherently good or evil. it has 
it's light side and it's dark side. It is a tool, and like any other 
tool it can be misused. Ignorance leads to improper use of the Force; 
the unwise use the Force emotionally. Incorrect use of the Force can 
lead to death and destruction. Only through proper training can the 
Force be justly applied. In addition, the Force is a necessary and vital 
part of the universe. Think of the Force as more than merely the means 
by which you gain skills and power. It is a metaphor for the universal 
nature of life itself, vibrant, dynamic, and dangerous. All Jedi are 
permeated by the Force, just as all beings are, but the Jedi are most 
aware of it. Events in one region might affect another, as if the 
universe were one interconnected being, with the Force as its blood and 
life. The Internal Journey A Jedi grows in power as he experiences the 
world, gaining more proficiency in combat and in applying the Force. In 
turn, the Jedi affects the world around him, spreading the doctrine of 
the Jedi Code and making the universe a better place for all. This 
external growth and effect, reflects an internal growth of the 
individual Jedi. As a person becomes more attuned to the Force, he is 
challenged to fully embrace the tenets of the Jedi Order. Every Jedi to 
the humblest student to the greatest Master has room to grow and 
develop. The nature of the universe is such that new challenges 
continually arise to test a Jedi, as he questions old assumptions and 
deals with new situations. When teaching Jedi, stress the internal 
development of the student. Often a Jedi may have to sacrifice personal 
desires or goals for the good of the greater number. Jedi must deal with 
their own self-denial for the good of others. The Challenge of 
Temptation Temptation poses the greatest threat to a Jedi, and the fall 
of a Jedi Knight often begins with one rationalized decision or errant 
choice. The nature of temptation provides a continual challenge for 
Jedi. Temptation takes myriad forms. The simplest urges the Jedi to 
provide an easy answer to a complex question. The answer might be 
immediately satisfying but creates long term problems. The arrest of a 
crime lord, for example, might be immediately fullfilling, but unless 
the crime lord's empire is also shut down, the arrest merely creates a 
situation in which another being will assume the crime lord's role. 
Usually after a bloody civil war within the group that almost always 
endangers countless innocent lives. Another form of temptation comes 
from power of adulation and the threat of success itself. Accepting 
personal rewards is dangerous for a Jedi, for it inspires belief in his 
own abilities that might exceed the truth. In effect the Jedi comes to 
believe his own hype. The Jedi should learn instead that true 
satisfaction comes from the sense of well-being within, not from the 
approval of others. A Third form of temptation is the nature of power 
itself. The Jedi should be a force for good, which keeps them from using 
their abilities to rule others. This is an extremly powerful temptation, 
becuase Jedi often face ignorance and folly in their daily lives. The 
Jedi can be tempted to deal with such folly (bureaucracy is particularly 
rife with it), yet once that kind of interference starts, it soon 
escalates to a point where a Jedi encourages the very ignorance he once 
fought against, in the name of ruling others "for their own best 
interest." Temptation starts small - using the Affect Mind skill to deal 
with a petty argument, losing your temper when making a point, taking 
pleasure in battle. From these small blemishes the corruption grows. 
Rising From The Ashes Would-be Jedi must understand that failure should 
never be the end. The Jedi Code places a heavy load on the Jedi, 
requiring almost superhuman abilities for them to accomplish all it's 
demands. In large and small ways, all Jedi eventually fail the 
challenges posed by the code in some way. They might feel anger or 
succumb to temptation. They might work against the balance of the Force, 
even with the best of intentions. They will fall from the high ideals 
they hold. The true failure of a Jedi is not stumbling or failing to 
live up to the ideals of the Order. The true failure occurs if, once 
having fallen, the Jedi fails to rise again. Many Jedi who have failed 
in one of their tasks consider themselves beyond redemption or 
forgiveness, and in doing so open themselves to the dark side. Jedi 
strive to live up to the Jedi Code and the teachings of their masters. 
When (not if, but when) a Jedi fails to attain those goals, the only 
choices are to let the failure dominate his life, or to rise from the 
ashes of that defeat and strive to make peace with himself through the 
Force. That is the way of the Jedi.

Life As A Jedi Knight

Upon completing his training, a Jedi apprentice becomes a Jedi Knight. 
His life suddenly loses a great deal of structure. He no longer lives 
and trains on his Teacher's schedule, though he might still cling to it 
out of habit. Instead, he stands ready to undertake any task that a Jedi 
can undertake, or resolve any problems that he discoveries on his own. 
In gaining this freedom and taking on responsibility, the Jedi Knight's 
life becomes considerably more complicated than when he was simply 
required to heed his Teacher's instructions and follow his advice. He 
gains a great deal of autonomy, but loses an equal amount of direction. 
The Teacher still has the responsibility to provide the newly titled 
Jedi Knight with a task, one that gives the new Knight time to adjust to 
his new status. For some Knights, this is a solo mission, not unlike the 
mission they might have taken at the culmination of their trials. They 
might be assigned to assist another Jedi Knight. Others recieve an 
appointment to an office within the Jedi hierarchy based on their skills 
and talents. They become archivists, researchers or other similar 
positions. Some might even help train their Teacher's new student as a 
primer for training their own, or go on a journey of discovery, during 
which he could find a place or a problem that needed a Jedi Knight. He 
might also join a group of others to help a noble cuase. Such a Jedi 
Knight has great autonomy. He might wander the world, lending his skills 
where they are needed. Alternatively, he can pursue a specific goal such 
as watching over a person or researching Jedi lore to it's completion, 
even if that means spending the rest of his life in one place. Such 
descion are subject to change if the Order has more important tasks for 
the Jedi Knight.

Training Duels

When Jedi need to practice their fighting skills, they call upon one 
another to duel. When they choose to use weapons capable of killing one 
another, Jedi must be careful not to seriously injure one 
another.Similarly, when a Jedi Teacher teaches an apprentice the art of 
combat, he must be mindful of not only his own attacks but those of his 
student, who might lack the control to attack without harm. Jedi in 
Training Duels check their attacks. Jedi also observe certain customs of 
dueling etiquette, both to preserve harmony and to guarantee the safest 
possible duels. Much of this thinking carries over into the day-to-day 
behavior of the Jedi Knights. Fighting Duels are for Practice, not for 
Resolving Disputes. The Jedi realize that temptation to solve problems 
with fighting is often very strong. especially for younger Jedi. Thus, 
this rule is generally the first imparted to a Jedi when his training 
begins. Never Endanger Bystanders The Jedi Teachers should sternly 
reprimand Jedi who duel in public, specifically becuase they wish to 
avoid accidents. The Duel Ends if Someone is Injured An injured Jedi who 
insists on continuing a duel might not be thinking clearly. Thus, the 
duel ends the moment one of the participants suffers a wound. 
Paradoxically, most Jedi do not consider wounding an opponent in a duel 
as a victory. Instead, it tells them that they have unconsciously wanted 
to injure their opponent, which is cause for meditation. A Jedi who has 
injured an opponent in a duel generally does not participate in a duel 
again until asked. Some even wait until the opponent they have injured 
asks for a duel. Always Honor a Request to End the Duel When a Jedi asks 
for the duel to end, it is considered good form to immediately do so. 
Customarily, the person who makes the request puts away his weapon or 
bows if in hand to hand fighting when he makes the request. However, 
some Jedi Teachers use this point as a test. They leave their weapon out 
to see whether their apprentices are unwise enough to lower their 
defenses against an armed opponent - even one they otherwise trust. 
Never Strike an Unarmed Opponent Jedi Consider armed attacks against an 
unarmed opponent possible evidence of the dark side's influence. Of 
course, the same thinking does not apply to unarmed attacks against an 
unarmed opponent. Never Strike an Opponent Who is Unprepared Even an 
armed opponent may not be ready for an assault, so the Jedi customarily 
indicate battle readiness either with a formal salute or by adopting an 
"on guard" stance. Any other stance indicates that the combatant is not 
prepared for combat, though he could still verbally indicate otherwise. 
A weapon held to one side and directed at the floor signifies the 
default "at rest" stance. Never Use the Force During a Duel Duels are a 
test of combat skill, not of proficiency with the Force. If a Jedi uses 
the Force against his opponent during a duel, it is taken as a sign of 
desperation. This provides a good reason to end the duel, before someone 
gets hurt. Unfortunately, the habit of not using the Force in combat 
practice sometimes works against the inexperienced Jedi It does not 
occur to them that their opponents might not respect this custom. 
Similarly, using the Force to improve fighting skills is allowed if both 
participants agree to such beforehand. Calling upon the Force however, 
is considered extravagant and disrespectful to the Force. When 
Practicing Armed Combat Un-Armed Combat Tactics are Considered Fair Game 
Despite the injunction against using the Force, other combat tactics are 
perfectly legal, since weapon combat involves more than simply 
exchanging blows. Jedi frequently employ rushing, disarms, knockdowns, 
and trips, though grapples are generally frowned upon. Attacking an 
opponent's weapon to try and destroy it is a gross sign of disrespect, 
since it damages the personal property of a fellow Jedi. Consequently, 
few Jedi resort to this tactic. Except in life-or-death struggles.

