	After toying with the idea of staying around a bit longer, just to
see what happened, I have decided it is just not worth it.  I was probably
one of the most honest "pirates" around and prided myself on that, but
have often gotten myself mixed up with many not-so wholesome people in
the scene.  For this reason I am leaving the modeming world (at least in
the sense that we know it) for an indefinate period of time.  After taking
the advice of Sought After, to publically announce my departure, I decided
to jump on the bandwagon and release my little farewell.  The past year
has been undoubtably the most interesting, if not the most enjoyable of
my life.  I will always have something to tell my children and grandchildren
at the dinner table.

	I have personally been involved with many great groups, and have
had the oppurtunity to meet some great people in the scene.  For those of
you reading this who don't know me, I will let you know a little about my
career in the modeming world.

	It all started back in late spring of 1991... I had always considered
myself a decent artist (or so I had been told) and had dabbled with computer
artwork off and on through my recent past.  After seeing iCENEWS#1, calling
for new VGA artists, I applied and luckily got it.  I quickly became friends
with Frozen Tormentor (then president and founder of Insane Creators
Enterprises, the ansi/vga group) and continued to do VGA, and one or two
ansi pictures.  Eventually I became VP of the group, and after FT decided
to leave the scene, I became president.  It was during this time I broke 
away from the "who the hell is this guy" to the "hey I know who that is."
My board had become quite successful, as Spyrit's Crypt a Celerity board,
and I was always looking for ways to improve it, so I hunted for a cracking
group, and found a fledgling (on the PC) group, Razor 1911.  I ended up
being a site and it all took off from there.  From then I became great
friends with the Razor guys, and stuck with them through the good and the 
bad times... Up until now, I have been involved with many projects and groups
including: iCE, ACiD, Insanity, INC (for a few days at least), Razor 1911
and numerous side deals along the way... 

	Many people have befriended me throughout my days in the scene, and
many have given me chances that I am very greatful for... I will now take
a little time to thank all those that made this past year something to
remember.

- All the callers, uploaders, posters and supporters of Spyrit's Crypt
who helped make it one of the best boards around, I thank you and wish
all of you the best of luck.

- Zodact: My friend my son, you have been there for me too many times to
  count, late nights, early mornings, it was the best.  Razor 1911 will
  remain a legacy in my mind forever, and I only hope we can continue it
  together sometime down the road in the real world.  Take care, thanks for
  giving me the chance you did, I have and always will think of you as a
  great friend.

- Kingpin: You have always been a cool guy to talk with, and an excellent
  artist... I may not like Iron Maiden, but I guess it goes to show you that
  tastes don't have to get in the way of a friendship...

- Frozen Tormentor: I never really had much of a chance to talk with you
  one on one, too bad you seemed like a cool guy and iCE will undoubtably
  live forever.  Lastly however, I am not a backstabber as you have pictured
  me and just want to say... at least talk to someone before you decide what
  their intentions are.

- Rad Man: Ansi... not much to fall back on into the real world, during
  the chats we had however, you have been a cool guy.  ACiD was probably the
  best thing to happen to ANSI and I'm glad I had a part in it...

- The Cracksmith: I didn't get to know you very well, but what I did get
  to know was a very cool person.  Too bad we werent on the same side for
  more than a few days, it could have been fun... 

- Cool Hand: Can't say that I had much of a relationship with you either,
  but from the times we did converse, I'd say you were an alright guy. 
  From all the people in the scene, I must say you were always dedicated,
  (perhaps a bit too much) and I respect you for that... 

- Sought After: The heartbreakers eh? what a lovely name... We had some
  fun times, and all in all you are quite a cool guy... I better not say
  anything bad or I might have a different phone number tommorow right? right?
  Hah... I am taking your advice though as you can see...

- Hyperion: You were one of the nicest guys that I knew. That pretty much
  sums it up... You were there for us all the times we needed someone and
  I thank you for that, I wish I had gotten to know you even more than I have,
  Razor 1911, Insanity, you did a great job on both...

- The Byter: Celerity, a legacy in the BBS world for sure. You always have
  had the best and newest features first, and I am glad I had the oppurtunity
  to run such a well crafted program.

- The Rengegade Chemist:  I only wish you were in Razor during it's prime
  last year, you were a devoted member, and a nice guy to chat with.  I'm 
  sure I will talk to you in the future...

- Genesis: Well even thought I only got one article out of ya, all that time
  I appreciate any effort you were able to give... You were another one of
  those "devoted" people, and were quite a humerous individual.

- Darwin: What can I say? A great friend, I only wish I had more time to
  work with you on projects.  You are a great programmer and should never
  let that talent go to waste... We are only an ocean apart, lets get together
  some time and chat over tea...

- Lord of Peasants: You were the key behind making Insanity as great as it
  was, you are a great programmer, and I hope you never lose sight of that.
  Thank you for devoting the time you did to making the magazine so special.

- The Grim Reaper, Line Noise, Paladin, The Eel, TomKat, Doctor No, 
  Force Ten, Golden One, Kublai Khan, All the iCE and ACiD artists,
  Bryn Rogers, Night Ranger, Gnarly Beast, Sector9, Uriel, All the
  Razor 1911 members, couriers and supporters.

- And all the people I am to tired to remember, sorry if I forgot you,
  its been a real tough day, but you all know how thankful I am already
  for sure... 

Farewell from:

 Black Spyrit: Razor 1911, ACiD, Insanity
 Spyrit's Crypt: Razor 1911 World Headquarters
		 ACiD Eastern Agora
		 Rescue Raider Eastern Headquarters
		 Insanity Magazine Home