Hey boys and girls,

Well, where do I start?  I guess a good place would be why I resigned from
running Razor 1911.  Here we go...

It's been over a year now since TSR has retired and I took over.  I had no
idea how to run a group, so I did what I thought was best and just tried to
make it a place where members could always come and have friends to talk to
etc.  We put meaning back into the word brotherhood.  I never harped on
people if they were unproductive due to personal reasons.  Vitas,
Manhunter, Pitbull and myself mainly tried to solidify that everyone should
be having FUN.  This all went great for about a year, or until November.
You see, the problem with running a group like a family is that in families
you always have slackers.  Besides a core group of individuals most of the
members in the nfo don't do shit.  Maybe once in a while someone would pull
something out of their ass, but for the most part it was just mainly a
space filler.  It's no surprise that about 85% of the games we released this
year came from Vitas, r0adkill and myself, (we supply as a team).  December
rolls around and we don't release anything except maybe one title, which
was disappointing.  Then we lost on a release that we should have won on
seeing as we have won on every other title they have ever done...a'la Quake
2, (great job CLS).  Despite all the criticism the group received, we did
what we wanted to.  Razor stands for Quality rips and cracks and a feeling
of fun and friendship.  We don't have to release 20+ titles a month to meet
a quota and frankly we didn't give a shit if we did.  In an entire year we
lost 3 members, one being a courier..sniff.  I would have preferred not to
lose any, but only losing 3 people in a years time does mean something in
itself.  We had 4 fixes from last November to present, and released over a
hundred titles...not too shabby.  Ah well, I'll stop patting myself on the
back...why'd I quit?  I quit because not too long ago I received an e-mail
stating I should retire and give the group to some as of yet un-named
members.  The e-mail complained that we haven't done shit in a month and
basically we were starting to suck.  Comment or Criticism e-mails don't
bother me, constructive criticism is essential for knowing what your doing
right or wrong.  What bothered me was these members the e-mails referred to
have done NOTHING for almost six months.  Not to inflate my head, but I
busted my ass in this group..I cracked, packaged, supplied,
couriered..everything.  Maybe I even cut myself out of the loop..who knows.
Anyway, I decided enough was enough..I logged onto irc, said hi changed
the topic and haven't been on since.  The scene is a joke...Razor had some
good fans but for the most part everyone out there is a bandwagon fan.
They don't know enough about a groups history to be a fan.  So,
fuckem...fuck everyone in the scene, from the bottom of heart.
I have a few personal greets for friends:

Vitas: Adios mi amigo..catch ya on the flipside...REALITY! :)

r0adkill: they just can't handle us on UO bro...PK'S UNITE!


Beowulf: Keep the faith, and the quality cracks brother..you are THE best!

Wolverine: I'll send it, gimme a break already.. :)  You are the man!

Manhunter: Nice serving with you...lates

ZEUS:  Still woman hunting in video stores? :)  Lates bro!

Tai Pan:  Drop the attitude, raise the intelligence, grow up, ah fuck
it..you all around suck.

Pitbull & Thirdson: Good luck

TSR: Blow me

Shadow Master & Cyberphreak:  You got your wish...enjoy!

Grudge: Nice cracks...too bad your on the wrong side.

Ice & Cypher: Good luck my euro bro's...Dan, I'll keep in touch.

Bunter: Adios my aussie friend..

Razor:  My family, my friends, my life basically...always Razor by heart
and mind.  Keep the faith, stand strong
        and work hard for a change.  I'll miss you all.


							              A Disgruntled Postal Worker
											T.P.-RZR1911