
        "To my friends in the scene, and those I don't even know"

        Well, I know that the header looks cheesy,  but what the fuck.

        Anyway.  I am  sure that all  of you have  read all the little
    text  files  floating around  from Black SpyriT, Sought After, The
    Eel, and others.  Well, here is one to add to the collection.

        I, "The Renegade Chemist"  resign from the  scene NOW.  I have
    had a  real blast in  the 4 or 5  years that  I have been  messing
    around with  computers and modems.  And I have  learned a lot, and
    met a lot of  great people.  But I think that it is  high  time to
    "hang it up" for reality.

        I know it  may sound really  lame, but I am  scared.  I am not
    even as big a figure as TNSHB  or TGR or SI or BS, but I am really
    truly afraid of getting caught in this game.  Sure, I have enjoyed
    it, starting  from a lamer with the handle "Fletch Lives",  moving
    up  towards a  higher status in  ModemLand.  A lot of  people have
    helped me / hurt me on my way up, but all in all I appreciate all
    of the criticisms, constructive and destructive.

        Anyhow, I am cutting this short and to the point to save your
    sanity ( after reading that 20k one from Sought After, hehe) ).

    Black Light - Hey man, we had fun, didn't we?  Let's hang out
      sometime ( like we wouldn't, hehe ).
    Chairman - Sorry that things are not going to work out with APeX.
      I really would like to help, but things are getting too hot
      for me.  I suggest that you go back to the way Suburbia was,
      and not worry about it either.  I am sure I will see you soon.
    Zodact - Funny how we met again after all those years ( well,
      one or two anyway ).  I wish that it could have been on
      better circimstances for Razor at the time, but hey, life's
      a bitch ( and the scene even moreso ).  I know that we
      will still talk alot and maybe I will even see you in college.
      Maybe you can come down here for Spring Break, who knows.
      Anyway, Razor 1911 ( at least the cracking part! ) was fun
      while it lasted.  Hopefully we can continue the tradition
      in the real world.
    Black SpyriT - Well man.. its been great working with you in
      the past weeks, and hopefully we can continue in the future.
      Need I say more?
    Tarl Cabot - I feel like I owe you a lot, man.  Out of nowhere
      you showed up to help us out w/a courier system, and set it
      up in record time.  I appreciate all the hard work you put
      in to make it work, and if you ever need a favor, just ask.
      The task you are taking on yourself of organizing ( hmm.. )
      right now is a great one, but not impossible.  I wish you
      luck, but one thing - be careful, my friend.  It's really
      not worth it.  Talk to you soon.
    Force Ten - Well, SDA has been good to me, and I appreciate all
      of the work that you and the top members have put into it.
      Also, TCSNet is and will always be the best pirate network
      ( in my eyes... ).  Good luck with Revelation.  Also, if you
      see an ANSi done by me that says "SDA" on it every now and
      then, well, I don't want to get bored.
    The Master - Well dude.  What to say.  You were there in CWF
      from the beginning, and I appreciate that.  You're a good
      guy, and I hope that you and Rick can get it together with
      Revelation and TCSNet.  Sorry being a Razor 1911 courier
      did not work out for you, but I think that you took a bet-
      ter path anyway.  Good luck.
    Prizm - Yeah, Yeah.  Even you.  I know that we had a falling
      out not that far back, and I am sincerely sorry for anything
      that I said or did to piss you off.  I know that some of the
      things I said were totally unnecessary and uncool, but you
      still have a short fuse.  Take it easy, man.
    Sicko ( NOT of The BoG! ) - Well man.  I know that you probab-
      ly think that I dicked you over, and that's fine.  I really
      did not intend to, but that is the way that it worked out
      in the end.  The pirate world is a brutal place, no?  Anyhow,
      wish you luck with your wife and hope there will be lots
      of little Sickos running around real soon.
    Intrepid - Bastard with Rush tickets.  Oh well.  Keep up your
      programming, you really have talent.  Don't forget that.
      Chat w/ya sometime soon.
    LL Cool J - Hey dude.  You have been a good friend for months
      now, and I appreciate you letting me leech megs and megs
      'o shit off of ABC to satisfy my wares-hunger ( especially
      at 2400 baud for a while! hehe ).  I am sure I will still
      talk to you.  Take it easy.
    X-Terminator - Hey, didn't talk to you very much, but you
      seemed a cool guy.  Don't get busted doing anything dumb,
      and get plenty of pussy.  Later man.
    CrackSmith - Well Drew.  I only talked to you a few times, and
      me and Freddy and you all chowed down at that Chinese place.
      Hey, pretty good food.  We should go again sometime.  While
      I know that we did not really get along real well in the
      scene, it doesn't have to be that way outside of it.
    Cool Hand - We had a lot of our differences out on the boards,
      and I relished all of the exchanges that took place.  It was
      a lot of fun, but that's all it was, so don't take any of
      that crap personally.  Later man, and remember you have a
      family to worry about.
    The Unknown - Traitor ( hehe ).  Good luck as the best INC
      courier around.  But don't do it after you get a license and
      a car.  Women are better.
    Merlin - You and I were once good friends, and recently I
      tried to open my mind and once again become your friend.
      However, it seems my first judgement was right - you are
      nothing but a spoiled and immature brat, and will never be
      any more until someone slaps you in the face and wakes you
      up.
    Stiletto - Hey man, sorry that your status as a Razor courier
      didn't last too long.  But I am sure that I will have a
      chance to talk to you about that sometime.  Later, man.
    Mad Hatter ( of iCE-TNO ) - Heh.  Thanks for that informative
      email the other day.  Have a good one, man.
    Old CWF crew - Well guys.  Sorry to have let you down back
      then, and best of luck in the future.
    Hyperion - Didn't talk to you a whole lot, but from when I
      did, you seemed like a great guy.  I am sorry about what
      happened, and I sincerely hope that you are better off in
      the future.  Good luck.
    The Elemental - We have had our differences in the past, but
      Cypher really is great software.  Good luck.
    The Weeze - Hehe.  Kinda funny that this should happen right
      after I drop you my voice number and such so that we could
      work together on some pics.  Anyway, keep up the good work
      and take it easy man.  If you are still interested, gimme
      a ring.
    Freddy Krueger - Well Sean, we had our good times and our bad
      times, and I'm sorry I didn't grab that drive from you.  Per-
      haps some other unknowing soul will be taken for it :).
    Spread - Met ya on Revelation, and you run a great board.  You
      will probably still find me leeching on there every now and
      then.  Take it easy, man.

    All the old Razor team, friends in the scene that I may have
    forgotten, and hell with it even people I don't know -
      Take it easy dudes, and remember that the scene is a big
    game.  To quote Zodact, "The scene is a game, but when the
    game gets to the point that you either win on a release or
    get thrown in jail, it gets too risky."  Also remember
    that these computers were not originally designed for what
    we use them for a lot of the time - learn something useful,
    make this expensive hardware worth the money you shelled
    out for it.

    Goodbye, all!

    The Renegade Chemist

    [Razor 1911 Member]
    [SDA Artist]

