       F i n a l  F a n t a s y  B B S     L e g a l   I n f o r m a t i o n

      
                             ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                             ³ I M P O R T A N T ³
                             ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

                 FINAL FANTASY SYSOP-USER AGREEMENT FILE NOTICE
  ÖÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ·
  º By UnZipping these files you agree to abide by all Copyright laws of the  º
  º United States as found in U.S.C.A., and specifically those sections       º
  º regarding non-profit library check-out of software.  Once your checkout   º
  º period is over you must return or destroy these files.  If you do not do  º
  º so you will be in violation of Federal Law.  If you have any questions    º
  º regarding your legal liability please consult U.S.C.A. or your local      º
  º attorney.  Making copies or distribution of these files is expressly      º
  º forbidden by Federal Law, EXCEPT, by express permission to do so by the   º
  º Author(s), ( such as the case with 'ShareWare' or 'FreeWare', where       º
  º copies are encouraged).   Unless otherwise stated by the 'ShareWare' or   º
  º 'FreeWare' Author(s), your checkout period is 24 hours.  If you find this º
  º software to be useful, and plan to continue using it, you MUST purchase   º
  º it from your local retailer, or REGISTER it with the Author(s) per their  º
  º instructions.  Failure to do so is a VIOLATION of Federal Copyright Laws! º
  ÓÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ½

        This `CHECKOUT' BBS distributes software for the sole purpose
      of testing prior to purchase.  You've 24 hours to try the software
      and determine that it is worth  purchasing, then you must  destroy
      it.   The  BBS Sysop feels  that it is  unfair to  computer  users
      that they are unable to evaluate software to see if it suits their
      needs.  Many  users have purchased products by the way the program
      'looks' on the box and have been extremely disappointed - and have
      therefore wasted their money and (more important) time.  Nobody in
      their right  mind would purchase a  car  without  test  driving it
      first,  or  for  that  matter...purchase  clothes  without  trying
      them  on, so how  can  software  vendors  expect users to  buy one
      of their products without first testing it?  They will send copies
      of their software to large corporations to test but seem to forget
      there are also other users in the market willing to purchase their
      product if it meets their needs.   This is where this checkout BBS
      comes in.   This program is for evaluation only,  if you like this
      product  then  go  to  your  local computer store and purchase it,
      otherwise PLEASE do not USE or in anyway DISTRIBUTE this  product!
      There are many advantages to purchasing this product including:

     úùş Technical Support: Software vendors set  up  technical  support
			    lines  for  the  purpose  of  helping  their
                            registered users get the  most  out  of  the
			    product and help with any bug concerns, etc.
			    It is to your advantage to be  able  to  use
			    this (and the many features of the program).
     úùş Manuals:           Manuals are  a  very  important  part  of  a
			    software package.  No book  or text file can
			    replace the  original  manuals,  which  come
			    with the product. This enables  the  user to
			    get the most out of the package,  especially
			    with the very complex programs of today.
     úùş Upgrades:          With  buying  the  original program, you are
			    entitled  to  low priced or free upgrades to
			    new versions, bug fixes, and 'enhancements'.
     úùş Legality:          Using a program  without owning a registered
			    copy is illegal.
     úùş Control Of The     When  companies  who  create  good  products
	 Industry:          are  supported,  it  reinforces the need for
			    good products and helps the company continue
			    to create more  quality  products.   On  the
			    other hand, companies who create substandard
			    products have  two  options; either  improve
			    their products or get out of the industry.

      Until  companies come up with a better  way  of  allowing  users  to
      test their products before purchasing, 'checkout' BBSs will continue
      to make available products  for  your  testing.  Companies  recently
      have started to head in this  direction and you can now return  some
      products  to  the  company  if  you  are  not  completely  satisfied
      (Norton, and a few others), but this does not remedy  the  situation
      as the refund/credit takes a long time to get processed and is a BIG
      hassle!   We feel that under the current software industry standards
      of doing business, that evaluating software releases prior to actual
      purchase is still the best solution.

       ş  Remember... If you decide to use a product, you MUST buy it!  ş


           ş  Final Fantasy BBS offers no Warranty for Downloaded Software!
           ş  Final Fantasy BBS will not be held responsible for any damage
	      that may result in software downloaded from the system.
           ş  Final Fantasy BBS will not be held responsible for any actions
	      committed by any users.
           ş  Final Fantasy BBS is a NON-PROFIT BBS!
           ş  We won't be fraggin' responsible, period!

                                                -  T h e   S y s o p s


