

:The Curse Library:-:Ctrl-S/Space:

   Well it has come to my attention once again that we have even bigger losers
in the pirating world then The Bunnymen. Not possible? Think again, The Legion
hails a much bigger group with bigger losers!

   This file is not our style, we are capable of ragging in many more devious
and origional ways, which will soon become evident. The main reason I'm writ-
ing this file is because you might be wondering why I ragged on "The Appler"
and "The Warlock".  I think everyone should be aware of the reason so they
don't get the wrong impression, our reputation doesn't mean much at this point
and we in fact don't care if we lose a couple of supporters at this point.
However, we feel that we have to prove a point to the pirating world and not
let losers reign supreme.

   Ragging on people for no reason is unjustifiable, unfair and childish. The
Legion with their so called 15 members find it justifiable to lie and then
continue to annoy people by calling voice numbers at 3 in the morning, as well
as this they have stooped as low as putting out all those anonymous rag wares
on people. Yes folks! The Unknown Elite is actually a known loser, how do you
like that? His alias, THE MARTYR (617-848-1394), tell him what you think of him
at 3 in the morning, I'm sure you will feel better, I know I will.

Lets begin...

   The whole story started when I was called on a conference to take rags on
myself and The Digital Gang.  The people on did not tell me who they were
when I asked. This is obvious, losers when asked who they are, are too ashamed
to admit their real alias because we might laugh too hard at them, (not to
worry losers we'll get the last laugh). They then proceeded to call Tom E. Hawk
and told him that I of all people gave them his number. Tom E. Hawk knows
better and we both came to the conclusion that we have some major losers on the
phone, we immediatly hung up seeing as we don't like talking to losers,
especially anonymous losers who don't have the balls to sign something when
they rag on someone.

   About 2 hours later after the losers had called I made a few phone
calls to some people to find out if they knew of any losers who still start-
ed conferences. I managed to find out that some of the people on the conference
where local's that lived in New Jersey, (what do you expect from local
losers!). Anyways, looking for the numbers of the losers I couldn't find them.
Thanks to Touch Tone I found one of the dudes number. A while back someone
logged on to The Motherboard as "The Triton". Touch Tone called me and gave me
the guys number who was using my handle.  I called the dude to ask him if he
was on a conference.  It was very late when I called him and all he said was
call (201) 731-7319 because he will tell you the whole story.  I can see that
this person did not want to have any trouble so naturally he gave me his
friends number.  I tried calling the number but it was busy most of the night,
probably calling phone sex lines and jacking off in the closet. I finally
decided to wait till the next day to talk to the loze.  The next day after
school I tried calling that number again and still it was busy, geez, jacking
off again. Finally I decided to call back the origional guy to ask him some
questions.  He told me almost everything that he knew.  He told me that his
friend "The Warlock" was on the conference.  He also told me his voice number
since he knew this kid very well since they went to school together.  I also
asked the guy what he changed his handle to and he said "Time Warrior". I then
hung up with Time Warrior and called The Warlock's voice number (201)-731-2618.
His mommy answered the phone and did not want to put her son on since he had
his own phone and was still busy jerking off. Warlock's mommy finally gave in
and called Little Ricky to the phone.  When Ricky got on the phone he was
shitting a brick, and choking the chicken at the same time, he could not
believe it was me, he also couldn't believe that someone would interupt him
while he was doing the over the shoulder boulder holder manoeuvre with his 2
inch penis (ibid on that one!). I realized this was the biggest loser I have
ever talked to but I had to find out why such a loser would call me. Did he
think I wanted to talk to him? Fat chance, anyways, I asked him politely why
the fuck he called me on the conference. That's as polite as I'm gonna be to a
loser who calls me at 3 in the morning! It was not hard to find out that this
guy was not only a loser but was also the biggest liar I had ever talked too.
He told me that he did not know anyone on the conference! Isn't funny how
losers always say that? Then I remembered the second time they called me they
called me on someone's three-way. I asked him who called me on 3-way, he said
that he did. I then asked him if he phreaked, he said he didn't. How the fuck
can he add the dial tone in if he doesn't phreak. This is irrelevent to what
is going on but it shows how the loser is now contradicting himself. I then
started to rag on him a little and then mommy picked up the phone, oooooh,
tough guy, needs mommy to help him out, I'll get my dog Fido to rag on you next
time loser. After telling mommy to Fuck Off, yes he did say that to poor old
mommy I decided to tell mommy what a bad little boy she had. His mommy, Mrs.
Machado wanted to listen, so I proceeded to tell her the whole story while
Little Ricky was in the background screaming bad words at his poor old mom.
Finally Little Ricky stopped acting like a big dicky and told me that "The
Appler" (312)-460-5221 started the conference. Later loze, click.

   Not having this losers number I called one of his loser buddies in his loser
group. Yes, it's The Known Loser! The Martyr. What typical loze, Mike wouldn't
give me the number, but he dialed the number on 3-way for me.  Appler was not
home, probably at Ricky's house bum-fucking both him and his mother. I called
Martyr back a few times to try again and still there was just a answering
machine.  Oh, I almost made a mistake.  Martyr was on my 3-way the whole time
that I was on the phone with Warlock.

   I finally got a hold of Appler. Another loser, he denied everything and
stated that he did not start the conference. Appler tried to act stupid but
he couldn't fool me I knew he wasn't acting! Why won't any of these losers
admit their childish ways? Birth Defect? No. Jacking off too much? Possibly.
Total IQ of under 10? Ya, ya that's the ticket! Oh well another loser down,
Later Loze, click.

   Getting back to the conference and the "Unknown Elite", the losers on the
conference told myself and Tom E. Hawk that the "Unknown Elite" was going to
release a text file with our voice numbers and addresses. After hearing this
I put 2 and 2 together, Yes losers the answer is 4! But anyways I thought I
knew who the "Unknown Elite" was. I called Touch Tone and left him some mail to
call me when he gets home. Touch Tone wanted to know because he was once ragged
by the unknown elite. Touch Tone called me later that night and then we called
Appler.  I told Bart not to tell Appler that I was on the phone and play stupid
with him.  Touch Tone played along with The Appler and convinced him that Bart
and myself were enemies. After some clever questions Appler had told him that
they called me on a conference at 3 in the morning to rag on me. Appler also
admitted that The Unknown Elite, now known as The Known Loser was The Martyr.
When we tried to call The Martyr all we got his answering machine.  Bart
left a message telling him that we figured out that he was the Unknown Elite.
After The Known Loser, Mike, had denied it, (hey, of course what else is new?)
myself and Touch Tone started to rag on the loze.  Martyr finally told us that
he wrote a file once on Touch Tone and Sorcerrors Apprentice. What kind of a
lowlife would write an anonymouse rag file/ware in the first place? Well folks,
we just found out. This loser has wrote a whole bunch of them. So if you have
ever been ragged on by an anonymous rag file/ware expect it to be by The Known
Loser, The Martyr. After hearing this don't just sit and take it, get even with
the little shit! And for the sysops, I suggest you delete low-lifes like this
off of your board!

   After all the ragging by Touch Tone and myself, the loser had the balls to
say that the files were just an accident! Just an accident? Get a job loze!
When we and the rest of the pirating world stomp on your face that will be an
accident! We then tried to find out who was going to write the file with my
address and Tyron's address in it. After swearing that he will never tell he
said that he could put a stop to that file.  He told us that the real Unknown
Elite is a good friend of his and he will never tell us who he is. This is a
lot of bullshit and it is easy to see that the Unknown Elite is The Martyr.
After Bart and I threatened to fuck him over big time.  He just told us how his
family is involved in the navy, and with the police and shit. Typical 12 old
speaking here. You get your faggit father from the navy to arrest us, later
loze, click!

   After talking with yet another loser from the Legion I had to talk to
someone intelligent so I called Tom E. Hawk and told him the whole story. Tyron
told me the story of how the 15 member Legion of losers had thought that he
would quit DG to join 15 losers in a group. What a joke. They claimed that they
would get him manuals and such and then after a while, they said that he is out
of the group because he was not doing anything for them. When in fact he was
never in the group. We know you losers want a real member in your group, but
don't stoop as low as saying they are in your group when they in fact don't
want to have anything to do with a bunch of losers like yourselves.

   I guess the Appler and the Martyr and the rest of the dorks on that
conference who are in the Legion are trying to be in competition with the
Bunnymen to see who can last longer.  Martyr says if we do anything he will
release that rag file as the unknown elite with information about myself and
Tom E. Hawk.  Well, Mike, Fuck you!  Do as you want!  I am still going to even!
And Ricky you act like some big shit. Bart and myself laugh at the way you talk
and how you think we will just sit there and let you shit on us for nothing. I
am going to make sure that The Martyr gets what is coming to him, seeing as he
has hurt pirating enough with his anonymous rag files/wares. Martyr and his
friend wrote several files, so this concerns a lot of people in pirating like
The Hitman, One Eye, The Atom and others who I can't remember off hand. After
realizing what is upcoming for both The Appler and The Martyr they went crying
to Greg (Hitman), and asked for help but I dont think Greg would stoop so low
as to help out a bunch of assholes like those two. Bart then called Greg and
asked him what they said and Greg said he doesn't think that Martyr is The
Known Loser. However, Martyr admitted to us on the phone that he and his friend
are The Known Losers and we quite agreed with him! Greg also told Bart that he
also has a friend who writes text files under the name unknown elite. I don't
want to bring Greg into the situation but, if you ever get a rag file by the
unknown elite you can be sure it was written by Martyr or his friend or Greg's
friend.

   Well, that's all folks, I hope it has been entertaining, humorous, and
a learning experience for all of us. And as for the losers in the above
file, there are a lot of us in the pirating world who are going to make
your life very miserable and we are going to make sure you have a short
pirating career. We believe other pirates should not suffer from your
actions. Not once have any of the people in the Legion done anything
beneficial for pirating and we therefore conclude you guys are worthless
tools who should be wiped out of pirating so people can pirate not rag on
people.

That's about all I have to say.

Sincerely,

The Triton/DG

Thanks for the help with this file must also go to,

Touch Tone/CTC



[5][View 1-50/?] Ret = Exits :
