        Now it's time for a quick commentary by the Shadow Master!  If you
don't like it, I don't really care since I am gone for good after this
anyway.  After 6 years in the PC Scene, I quit.  Actually I quit a couple
of months ago, but the Speed Racer, being the lamer he is, begged me to
slam one more release, and to do it under the Razor name ( :) ).
        CD Rips suck!  Come on people, get with the program.  We don't have
the necessary hardware yet.  It's not like the old days of the scene either
when tons of floppy games would come out, and groups were actually respected.
At this point in the game, no one gives a fuck about who gives them their
wares.  People aren't willing to pay for distribution sites anymore, and
groups are slowly running out of the necessary resources to continue
functioning.  THAT FUCKING SUCKS.  Six years of fun, and now it's all going
down the toilet.
        I've said my peace, whether you care or not, and now I'm going to
give a few final shouts out to the guys that were not only my friends, but
contributors to the scene, back when it was respectable.  If you are
desperate to see the master back in action, catch me in one of my console
releases (and that scene is quickly dying too).  So, without further ado...

Shadow Master salutes these friends from 1989-1995:

Dr. Nukem, The Flash, Dioxin, The Serpent, Sam Brown (!), Digital Fuhrer,
Cool Hand, Axiom Codex, Orion, TMOD, Malignant Mercenary, Rigor Mortis,
Charon, Vengeance, FanFan LaTulipe, Dr. Insanity, Kid Capri, Tank, 
Cyber Beast, Dorian Hawkmoon, Psyco, Martial Artist (you ARE a lumberjack),
Psyco, Butcher, Troops, Wolverine, The Intimidator, Trojan Man, Toyman,
Funakashi, Mace Mandella, HAL 2000, Genghis Khan, The Gecko, Halaster,
Talen, Cyber Angel (sorry things turned out the way they did), Vfast,
Ixcalthar, Sigma Seven, Picard (aka Kirk), The White Knight, Vivid,
Shinobi, Troll, Gen. Zarnov, Mandrake, The Shapeshifter, Changeling,
Ice Cream Man, Rygar, Pieman, Fabulous Furlough, and Freelancer!!!

Special shouts to the guys who stayed cool with me through it all:

CyberChrist - 5 years and still going muthafucka!  Swat '95 <- 'Nuff Said
Der Schatten - Hacker?  There's no hacker at this residence!
Tazman - The peanut himself.  Thanks for helping me make by big break into
         Legend!  I suppose it was the WiLL 0F GoD!

and finally....(drumroll)...

The Speed Racer - The man with the master plan.  I brought you back from
                  the dead, and put a big thorn in a lot of people's asses.
                  You get some crazy props for that!  I don't think I'll
                  let you quit as easily as you'd like (I'll need the 
                  reinforcement come U-64 time!).

Finally to all these great groups, I bow in respect :

THG, INC, PE, TDT, TRSI, Razor 1911, PTG, Genesis, Legend, Swat, and the
granddaddy of them all...FAIRLIGHT!

                See ya in a console release near you!
