-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

                                                          6/21/95

To Snelle, and whomever else it may concern,

I know we have talked in the past regarding the operation of your wonderful
system, but I'm afraid this time I have nothing constructive to offer you.
In fact, this letter concerns the actions of two juvenile miscreants who
have been using your system for the purposes of harassment and threatening.

          I received a telephone phone call today from someone
identifying himself as "the SysOp of free.org." When I asked for full
identification, he would not even give me a first name, he kept
referring to himself as "the SysOp." Now, having previous knowledge
that the machine is not run by a single person, I knew this was a fake.
He tried to accuse me of some illegal activities but the fact that I
already knew he was faking, coupled with his awful grammar and lack of
social engineering skills, led me to simply hang up on him after
uttering an expletive which I don't care to repeat in this letter.
          A few minutes later I received a phone call from that same
person, this time identifying himself as "The Dark Prophet." He and
another free.org user "Mister Muff" proceeded to threaten me. They told
me that they were going to fraudulently set up a 1-800 number to my
personal phone line, and somehow bill me for it, among other threats
which were put across to me in this phone call. When I asked what
brought on these malicious and unprovoked attacks, I was never given a
clear answer, if I was given one at all.
          I believe this all stems from an incident on the IRC in which
I refused to grant channel operator status to this "Mister Muff"
delinquent. A simple incident such as that has mushroomed into a
pathetic display of system administrator impersonation as well as
threatening and obscenity over interstate phone lines (which is a
Federal Offense).
          While I do not want to pursue a bunch of kids to the point
that they will face jail time and fines which they will probably end up
paying for with their college savings, I do want this foolishness to
stop. I suggest you remove the accounts of "mrmuff" and "dprophet" from
your otherwise-peaceful system, or at least issue strict warnings to
these individuals. While I know the actions they threaten me with are
out of your control and jurisdiction, I believe that you will want to
take action when it comes to people impersonating you to carry out
their malicious plots.
          Thank you for your time, and I hope this can be resolved.

                                                  Sincerely,
                                              valgamon@free.org

P.S. I have the entire second phone conversation recorded on tape, which
     I will be happy to convert into a digitized sound file and distribute
     upon request. Please let me know whether you prefer VOC or WAV format.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBL+iiXz7SQQGNVCyJAQFXDwP/Qf1gH1L8hTRxzQcXx3tHCmDTfyM0jlRZ
JIRtVQxqpAUeC1DKDK7ckPVRloQttLDBzeQL7iMvo1YpYed1OufHO49GOIzmYb/D
vWWAqapC6iIj1Z8by85BVshQz+CwsWeHn2GMOCYGr/gYoOLF4YAuArlz9mNKtH8A
KKQri5JHRVg=
=fBCV
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
