
=====================================
A HISTORY OF THE SCENE
Written by Ipggi (April 20, 1999)
A Product of http://www.defacto2.net
=====================================
Shunted over to ASCII by Jason Scott of TEXTFILES.COM

INTRODUCTION

Ever since there has been the ability to store data on a personal 
computer and commercial software for sale, there has been the 
existence of pirating. Pirating, cracking and even pirate scenes
go all the way back to the late seventies, and maybe even earlier.
By the early eighties some machines (such as the BBC Macro in Europe)
where so riddled with pirates that the programming companies gave up.
They discontinued producing and porting software for the affected 
computers because there was simply no money to be made.

This report like this webpage is designed with the PC scene in mind. 

WHEN DID THE PC SCENE BEGIN?

Of all the many 8bit computers and scenes of the early eighties 
(the golden age?) most people will agree that the Commodore 64 
was the biggest of them all. The Commodore 64 scene started back
in 1982 (mainly by a lot of young teenagers). While the PC was
released earlier to the public it would be the Commodore 64’s 
pirate scene which would introduce many of the standards that today
we take as granted. During this time on the PC there were some small
groups with people releasing and cracking, but these cracked programs
usually remained local. The international PC scene did not take off
until 1987. This was when people started to trade software with 
cracks over longer distances and overseas which formed the basis 
of the now old school BBS scene. 

EARLY NFOs AND CRACKTROS

Unfortunately for us the eighties PC scene is one of the lesser 
known and least documented. Due to the limitations of the PC at 
the time, cracktros where extremely rare (unlike the Commodore 64, 
Amiga or Atari ST) and text files to document the releases were 
usually never created. 

In the eighties many cracks where usually created by individuals 
rather then groups (groups being a collection of people who work
under the same name). These individuals would normally leave a 
signature in the release to identify themselves as the cracker.
For example on a game's title screen you might see in the bottom 
corner "cracked by Lord Blix". By the end of the eighties it was 
the groups who where cracking releases rather then just individuals.
And with groups being a more prestigious lot they would sometimes 
insert a custom title screen designed especially for that release
(simular to today’s installers). Bentley Sidewell Productions, 
a famous cracking group of the late eighties would usually use 
a CGA picture or animation to show that they cracked the title. 
While International Network of Crackers would use a less 
captivating ANSI graphic.

It's worth noting that Bentley Sidewell Productions animations 
were probably the first cracktros and intros for the PC. So 
technically the origins of the PC demo scene goes back to the old 
PC cracking scene. 

It was the hacking groups of the eighties that first started to 
use acronyms to encrypt their names. This was often used to 
confuse unwanted people from differentiating the different hacking 
groups but it's main benefit was the addreviated typing. Typing 
abbreviations is a lot easier then typing the complete group 
name. But the standard three letter acronym was not really 
considered standard until the PC's emergence in the early nineties
(groups on other computers had up to five or six letter acronyms).
This was due to DOS's limited file naming capability of only being
able to handle eleven characters (eight . three) per file. 

When crackers wanted to add last minute notes or information 
about their cracks they would include a small text file into the 
release. Eventually groups started adding regular text files to 
their releases. Information in these files would usually state 
a note from the cracker, some information on how to play the game 
(keyboard keys etc) and maybe a member listing or some BBS numbers. 
It was about this time that the groups started to implement a set 
naming format to these text files. This format use an eight letter
abbreviated form of the program title followed by .DOC (short for 
document). Other groups decided to replace the .DOC acronym with 
one based on their groups name for example SIMCITY.CIA, SIMCITY.INC 
or SIMCITY.PTL. Hence the standard group three letter acronym was 
formed. 

To the best of knowledge The Humble Guys in 1990 introduced the now 
standard .NFO acronym. One assumes NFO was created to be the three 
letter acronym for the word information or info. The initial format 
was the standard eight letter game title abbreviation followed by 
.NFO before it eventually evolved to the now current standard of 
GROUP.NFO. 

COURIERS

The earliest long distance couriers started off under a 
different title, Phreakers. Most phreakers where usually involved
primarily in the HPAV (Hacking, Phreaking, Anarchy, Virus) type 
scenes with pirating being a second priority. This made the scene
very defragmentated and slow, it would take weeks for releases to 
be spread continentally. The problem was that not many pirates 
knew how to phreak and paying for long distance phone calls was 
out of the question. Thankfully in around 1988 a new phreak group
was created. North American Pirate Phreak Alliance (NAP/PA) was 
the group and it's goal was to spread the How To's Of Phreaking 
to the pirates. Many of the top boards of the time quickly 
became affiliations of NAP/PA, which made the information available
to the right people. This information literally helped the scene 
come a closer and a little more united. 

By the early nineties many people had less respect for couriers 
compared to that of the crackers, sysops and packagers. This 
opinion was usually formed because courering was not the most 
challenging of tasks, almost anyone could do it. It was more of a 
matter of how much you where willing to risk or spend rather than 
a person’s skill. At one point The Humble Guys even named their 
couriers, slaves. Couriers would have to log onto The Humble 
Guys BBS’s as slave 1, slave 2 etc. This caused an uproar in 
the scene but at the time The Humble Guys where the big guys 
and could generally do what they wanted. 

These days pre’ing releases (couriering a release before it's
made public) is common practice, it wasn't so back then. Due to 
the limitations in speed and the fact that you had to dial into 
each BBS individually, releases took longer to spread. This ended 
up coining the one most famous of BBS phrases, "0 day warez". 
Zero day warez is when one gets the release on the same day 
as it was released, be it from the software company or from a 
group. The saying was often used to differentiate the good BBSs
from the others and by suppliers for use on the status of software. 

BULLETIN BOARD SYSTEMS

Many BBSs at this time needed to pay a monthly fee for 
their group affiliation (money which usually came from the 
user-pay leech acccounts). This money would be used by the 
groups in many ways but mainly to obtain software. A broke group 
usually had a dry run when it came to releasing. This monthly 
fee plus all the extra hardware and phone lines required 
a major investment by the system operator. And it was investment 
that gave the siteop the respect they required from the BBS users. 
There was something about a top ranking sysop, because you 
were in their homes (electronically) using their equipment. 
They had total control over everything that happened on their 
system, including your personal information. 

Now, running a BBS that contained illegal software was a risky 
business. One because the system was usually based at the 
system operator’s home and two because there where some companies
that were desperate to stop the flow of the illegal copies of
their programs. These corporations including Microsoft and Novell 
worked with local and federal police in attempt to take down 
these means of distributing software. 

Now you all know about the Net Act. in the USA that now makes 
it legal for anyone with a certain amount (dollar value) of 
pirate software to be convicted. But you may be wondering how 
people were busted before this act was created. Well, the most
common reason would be that the offender was making money from
illegal software (selling CDs or floppies) which would attract
the attention of the police. While the other more harsh way of 
being busted was to get a civil case law suit against you. These 
were never pretty and usually involved the complete loss of 
anything that was computer related from one's house. Civil 
suits were bought on by software companies and are covered by a 
completely different set of laws to the criminal codes. Because 
of this most boards banned Novell releases due to Novell’s 
semi-successful world wide anti-piracy campaign.

The death of the BBS one could say happened after Park Central 
closed down. This was at the time the number one BBS in the 
world and was a central link for the scene. It was often used 
to prove who won a release race, being the boxing ring and the 
referee. But some groups got smart and started avoiding the 
BBSs all together and instead decided to spread the release 
exclusively over the Internet. This left people a confusing 
situation of where there was one group winning the release on 
the BBS’s and the other winning on the Internet. The final 
nail in the coffin for the bulletin board system was the infamous
Cyberstrike campaign of February 1997 where five major BBS’s
were busted in a single week. It caused many BBS and some sites 
to close shop permanently in the fear of themselves being 
the next victims. 

SUPPLIERS

The supplying methods for groups in early years weere not 
too different to today’s methods. Store pickups and ordering
directly from the company where the main means for many groups. 
The money would usually come from various payments such as 
official BBS affiliates. Another more attractive way to supply
was to use insiders who are kind of like corporate saboteurs 
for the pirate scene. Insiders obtain the program directly from
the source before it’s released to the stores. It saves a lot 
of effort on the group’s behalf as they don’t have to keep 
tabs on the program and they avoid the rush to grab it when it 
goes to the stores. It also left the crackers more time to 
tinker around with the program. 

A more creative way to obtain pre’store software was for group
members to pretend they worked for a gaming magazine. The 
software companies where usually more then happy to send out 
their software if given the correct information. But when the
companies smartened up this option became less viable. 

SCENE ART

There have been artists for the PC ever since there has been 
ASCII and ANSI. But international groups in the way that we 
know of today only started in around late 1990. ACID (ANSI 
Creators In Demand) were the first of these international 
groups, trend setters who originally specialised in ANSI art 
and ANSIMation ads. They earned their reputation of being one 
of the best in their field by supporting the best pirate boards
of the time. Just like our demo scene the PC art scene emerged
from the pirate scene. Unfortunately this link has long 
since been lost with the warez scene art becoming second class. 

As the PC gained more acceptance in Europe (an area dominated
by the Amiga and Atari) some members of the bigger Amiga groups
found themselves using or buying these strange PC machines and
needed software. So a long line of Commodore cracking groups 
made their way across to the DOStel system, including Fairlight,
Razor 1911 and the merged Tri Star and Red Sector. 

THE INTERNET

The Internet has often been used by the scene for 
various reasons but it never became a serious tool until
the early nineties. Little did people know at this time 
how much this tool would change the scene, to basically
create a new generation of pirate scene. Bulletin board 
systems had always kept the scene secret and underground. A 
newbie often found it extremely difficult to gain access 
to even a mediocre local board. Most of these people faced
the daunting task of hunting down a system password just 
to get the logon prompt and then new user password to even
apply for membership. But the Internet changed all this,
the Internet made everything that was once so hard to obtain
so easy. IRC, email, ftp and webpages all open to Joe public. 
And in 1994 they flooded in, drove after drove causing 
great despair among the many old schoolers. Many of these 
people didn't appreciate their turf being overrun by these 
so-called lamers, so they closed their doors. While the 
old doors closed new doors opened, newsgroups, top100 web 
pages, anonymous ftp and the most infamous of all IRC offer 
channels.

IRC offer channels where originally started by groups to 
offer releases to their friends but when Fate (the 
leading Internet courier group in 1995) opened their 
channel (#fatefiles) to the public, Joe Lamer couldn't 
resist. Many people copied #fatefile's format (+mnst) 
and many of these channels failed, especially since 
most groups totally disapproved of IRC trading. 

CD RIPPING

While the Internet changed the way the scene communicated
and traded it was the gaming industry’s move to the CD Rom
that also helped create the second scene revolution. While
CD Rom titles for the PC have been around since 1989 
(Sierra/Dynamix) the scene did not take onto this new medium
until the mid-nineties. And even at this time no one took it
too seriously with many groups creating separate groups for
the CD Rom releases. These seperate groups where usually 
created just to release crapware under a different label. 
And that is was CD titles where originally considered, 
crapware. These crapware groups where kind of like the 
IND releases today, though less anonymous. 

Originally these crapware/cd-rom groups would release the 
whole CD, but it wasn't in ISO format, rather the files were
just copied off the CD. But people were not used to these
large releases and so Hybrid invented the first cd-rip, 
where the group would leave out unnecessary parts of the 
game. But the rippers still had the mentality of the floppy
disk: the smaller the better was the goal. So many games 
where raped to their bare minimum making them pretty boring
to play. Playing some of these raped games was like trying
to watch a special effects Hollywood blockbuster on a black
and white TV with no sound. To add to this many ripped games
were poorly cracked with a great number requiring third party
utilities such has CD emulators (fakecd.exe). 

When software publishers started taking advantage of the 
space available on a CD Rom most of the main game groups
agreed on a standard disk limit. On July the 6th 1996 five of
these groups formed a pact agreement under the name of Software
Pirates Association (SPA). The SPA's goal was to see the
enforcement of their "rules of engagement". Any release that 
broke the SPA rules would be nuked on the affiliated sites. 
Eventually the SPA fell prey to internal fights created by 
group politics. 

In 1998 the SPA was laid to rest because the groups involved 
were simply not following the rules. But soon enough the big
three groups (Class, Razor 1911, and Paradigm)formed a new
organization called The Faction. The faction created a 
detailed listing of its rules and they released those rules
to the public. The biggest change was the upping of the disk
limit to 50*2.88 disks (it had been 75*1.44 disks). 
While other groups changed to the 2.88 disk format some did
ignore the 50 disk limit and too many people it just didn't 
matter anymore. 


ISO SCENE (CD IMAGES)

In 1997 the prices of CD writing material became cheaper, this
combined with easier access to high speed internet created a new
niche market. Full versions of games where wanted and so the
ISO scene was created. ISO's are CD images and because they
contain the complete CD image they are extremely big. Just 
like the CD scene three years earlier some of the bigger groups
created new sub-groups for this ISO scene. 

By 1998 the ISO scene had grown. Gone were the days groups
would dupe each others titles on different sites and not 
even realise it. Also gone where multistandards in releases. 
The scene may have been called ISO because that was the 
original format people used to store the information with but
by 1998 everyone had switched to the bin/cue format. Also 
strangely we discovered in 1998 that some big name rip groups
couldn't hack it in this ISO scene. While some others who 
fared terrible in the rip scene flourished in with ISOs. 
Probably the biggest controversy in the ISO scene for this year
was whether groups should rip out Direct X etc to fit the image
onto a standard 74min CD or weather to leave it as a full 
80+minutes (which required special CDs to burn properly). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY

Bruce Sterling. The Hackers Crackdown, 1992. ISBN 0-553-56370-X
Insane Creator Enterprises. Insanity, 1991.
Reality. Reality Check Network, 1996.
Steve 'Toast'. NFO Archive, 1995-98. http://www.uoguelph.ca/~shost/mail/mail.html

Revision IV (200499)
Scene History Composition, © 1998-9 by Ipggi. All rights reserved. 

