[01-23-97]-= The Truth About Rapier And Some Of Their People =-

  Well it is a dark day in the warez scene now.
  Apparently this little group called Rapier has single h
  andly broken all the "unwritten" codes we purveyors of
  warez have established. Let me tell you what happened.

  Once there was (and still is) a Courier group called Motiv8.
  M8 has been around for a long time and is a respectable group.
  In this group there was a courier named Bush. Bush started at the
  bottom and worked his way up through the ranks. Bush is a good courier,
  hitting the top10 on several major sites. Motiv8 one day decided to
  merge with another group. From this group Motiv8 brought in Bob226.
  Bob226 runs a site called Fubar. So the people in M8 gave Bob226 a
  list of couriers to add to the site. Well it turns out that Bob226
  was actually working against Motiv8 for a courier group called Rapier.
  Bob226 gave the list of M8 courier info to other people in Rapier who
  in turn raided Bush's acct on SWM and maybe elsewhere. They gave away
  his Credits to Jess (Also an ex M8 person who joined Rapier) Also other
  Rapier people were involved. They include Kali and _Real_. There may be
  others, but we only have definite proof of these individuals. Aside from
  giving away his credits they also changed his Info on SWM to something less then friendly. On top of that, They also uploaded warez
that they knew would be nuked.

  Now it may be said that Bush may be at times "less then friendly" to others,
   but there is no excusable reason for a courier group like Rapier to pull
   shit like this. bob226 is a site op! What else will he do to other couriers
    in other groups?! As a site op Bob226 should be shunned! Rapier should
    be banned from all sites! The warez scene shouldnt be like this.
    There should be no room out there for groups like Rapier and people
    like Jess, Bob226, _Real_ and Kali. As for Samuarion,(rapiers leaer)
    I feel he knew this was going on. If he didnt he should kick out those o
    ffending members. No respectable group should accept these members.
    This was a blatant hostile act by Rapier and its members. Shame on them.
     I hope you ll join me in banning Rapier and its members (especially bob226, Je
     ss, Kali, and Real) from your sites. Cowardly acts like theirs should not go
      unpunished. Furthermore, I say we call a boycott on the site "Fubar".


  I once had repect for Rapier, not much cause they steal other couriers, but
   some. Now I see that I am justified in saying that Rapier is a piece of
    shit and their members are no better.

  This letter is written anonymously because I do not want people to say
   it was one sided. Everything I have written is true and can be proven.
    Talk to Motiv8 council members if you want to see the proof,
     HOWEVER they do not know I am writing this. They may have never seen
      this letter. I wrote it because I want the truth about Rapier and
      its members actions known!

BOYCOTT RAPIER ON YOUR SITES!!!  BAN RAPIER ON YOUR SITES!!!

                               --Anonymous

4-11-23-13-31-11-21-14-18-29-19 

EOF
