                 {TR0} - Tha Ruthless 0rganization - {TR0}

                                  Presents:

                               SPAvin Bastardz

ßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßßß
By: Gangsta                                                        N0V 23, `95

INTRO:


     Hell O's and let me introduce myselves.  In 214 I am known as Gangsta or
Vip. I run a board called 'Violent in Public` that is mostly about Freedom of 
Speech and Information.  Recently, I have started a Network in this area by 
the Name of 'FreeNet`.  Yes, I am another one of those Freedom of Speech 
Fanatics.  I know this is nothing special since there have been others before 
me.  Take cDc for instance, A Insane TFile writing group.  

     Now about TR0 we are made up mostly by a bunch of cut throat insane 
killas who roam the streets at nights looking for our next victims.  Our goal 
is to spread our insanity through out this conservative ran country.  Most of 
us have been locked out of most of these lame Conservative boards that plauge 
our city.  Fuck yeah, too bad there are more of them than us at the moment. 


THATS ALL NiCE GANGSTA BUT WHAT THE FUCK iS ALL THiS ABOUT?:

     Oh yeah, Well this here TFile is a little horror story about an 
organization called SPA that is investigating me as I type.  SPA stands for
"Software Publishing Association" and is the biggest non-government, 
anti-pirate organization around. (ha! ha! Gangsta is going down) SPA is well 
known on the Internet for getting the System Administrators to illegally 
search through users' dirs to find warez.  Those who don't agree to help them 
are threaten.  There is an interesting RiSC/ETA flie about this subject that
I saw the other day.
	
     Now let me get back to this story that I am supposed to tell here.  
As I mentioned earlier I run a BBS (ViP) and a Network (FreeNet).  FreeNet was 
starting to grow as I got new boards to join it.  As the story goes I was 
friends with a SysOp of another board in this Area called Psychosis.  This was 
a Pretty cool board that ran a Network by the name of XNet.  Chatting with the 
SysOp(Psych0) one day I found out that the FBI was investigating him because 
his X-CoSysOp's Girlfriend had called them on him and said he had Warez.  
Psychosis was pretty clean afterwards.

     It was lucky for Psych0 that he was underage and his mother was planning
to move to Colorado Soon.  Before he moved we decided that I should take over
his 2i4 XNet operation and we would exchange PKTs twice a weak.  So now I was
Hub to two networks. 

     This is were my problem originated from.  Not too long after Psych0 moved
I got a call one day from someone by the Handle of Toggle.  This dude wanted
to join XNet but after finding out that the SysOp of XNet had moved he decided
to join FreeNet instead.  This was cool with me since afterall the network was
about Freedom of Speech and thus open to anyone.  After his joining of FreeNet 
I decided it was time for a new FreeNet Ansi.  When I was done with the Ansi 
I went on to advertise my network on some of the local Boards in this area.
     
     The Day went by and I called one of the elite boards I am on where I
had posted one of the ANSIs at.  To my surprised I had a letter in my EMail
informing me that one of the boards on my list was SPA.  The guy went on 
asking me what I knew about the board and about the SysOp.  Feeling stupid I 
could only say I knew next to nothing about the SysOp or his Board.

     Hmm I have SPA board on my network, what the fuck do I do?  Now that I 
think about it this guy has been acting kind of strange.  Shit, what the fuck 
have I done?  At the thought of being investigated I decided to do a little 
investigation of my own.  This guy sure was interested in my H/P stuff but I 
had nothing to worry about those since they are perfectly legal.

     I decided to have my friends do the little investigating for me to find
out if this guy really was SPA or not.  I wanted to know if I was being 
investitgated by the suckers or not.  I remeber how Psych0 was investigated
and started to think that maybe my association with him was the cause of my 
investigation?  Since I was the New XNet hub my name was first on the nodelist
in this area now.  The SPA guy after all wanted to join that network first.

     Yeah that possible but now it was time to start my own little private 
investigation.  I asked around and soon found out that the sysop of 
"The Harvest" had asked one of my friends to start an "All Warez Board"  He
also told him that he had tons of wares.  Hmm, A member of SPA telling someone
to start a warez board?  Sound very suspicous.  Later on, I also found out 
that this SysOp told other people about his "Warez Section."  

     This was all interesting information but what scared me the most was that
I found out he had tons of networks on his system and Guess which one showed 
up first in his Message base.  Yes, it was "FreeNet".  Out of the hundreds of 
areas mines obviously interested him the most for some reason.  If that was 
not enough he also had an Anti-Pirate Network. 
  
    The next thing I decided to do was to have a friend call his board and ask
him directly if he was SPA.  What better way to find out something then to 
have Someone login under a fake name and ask the guy directly?  That is what
we did.  Yes, the direct question worked like magick.  The other SysOp of the
board started getting nervous when asked and quickly admited that his friend
and him were part of SPA and that their board had no warez at all.  He 
probably thought with his friend telling everyone they had warez they might 
themselves be under investigation now.

    With this knowlege I decided it was time to get rid of him.  Afterall a
person who is a Member of SPA that tells people that he has warez and to start 
Warez boards obviously is not to be trusted.  Why would someone who originally 
called my board for XNet all the suddenly be so interested in FreeNet that he 
puts it infront of all his messages in his base?  A person who had hinted to 
piracy in the messsages a few times.  
  
     Yes, I had to get rid of him but how?  I don't want this to look too 
obvious.  The best I could think up was to setup a fake FreeNet area for
him that he would see instead of the real one and then cut off his feed.  My
plan was that once he notice the drop in the messages he would call my board 
and look in my FreeNet area.  There he would see all the old messages up to a 
certain point.  Yes, that might work and if it doesn't it won't matter much 
either since I decided to go clean for now.  

     After setting everything up for him it was time to warn the rest of the 
world.  First, I called a few local Elite boards to warn people of the board
called the Harvest and not to trust the SysOp.  I told my tale for all to see.
Next, I would write this TFile that you see now for educational use. >;)

     I don't think it is right to be investigated on the basis of who you know
or don't.  I was not really a Super Warez Board to begin with since my board 
is mostly message based.  Sure Violent In Public might sound like a name a
major warez board might use buy we should not judge things by their names.  
SPA has no right to base an investigation on such things.

     Anyways there is a bit more to this story but that is basically how it 
went.  So TR0 is not about Anti SPA Zines or anything like that this just 
happened right about the time we were going to start publishing Zines.  
So expect to see more Insane shit than this in the future.  

That it for nowz.. .

L8rz "Fuck Tha SPA" Gangsta.


ISSUE 001

þþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþ
þ  The Ruthless 0rganization 1995.    þ Violent in Public   (2i4) 494-1024  þ
þþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþþ
