29

:The Curse Library:-:Ctrl-S/Space:




  'The Truth'

      by The Martyr

=--=

 I assume that most of you have read the 'rag file' from Triton/Eddie. As I have said, most of the information is his assumptions and are simply not true.
This file is not a rag file. I feel I am a little too old to write lame files
of that type.
 This whole thing started in dealing with Tom E. Hawk/Tyron. Back on trade
center a year ago Tyron gave me his phone number to do some trading and the
like. I think I called him once or twice.
 Anyway, when Back Bay Hacker/Keith's broke down, Dark Logic started being
violently ragged. I decided to leave. Not too long later I joing The Legion (a
group who specializes in the GS field. Some cracks include paintworks and
music studio). We decided to talk to Tyron about GS applications, so we gave
him a call. After talking for a while one thing led to another and one of us
asked,
 
                 "Would you like to join Legion?" Amazingly he said, "Yes, but
I have to talk to Eddie and Dave/Sherlock first." That was that and he told us
to have me call him and he'd give an answer. By the way, we were going to
trade first. We finished the trading. Here is pretty much how the conversation
went.

"So what did you decide?" - Mike
"Alright, I decided yes." - Tyron
"Does this mean your leaving DG?" - Mike
"Yep, but I will talk to Eddie and Dave." - Tyron
"Okay great! Didn't you talk to them yet?" - Mike
"No, not yet." - Tyron
"Enjoy those programs and I'll talk to you next week." - Mike
"Okay, goodbye" - Tyron

<click>

 Evidently someone called Tyron and told him we would send him a photo copy of
some various APW documentation. (about 2600 pages) Before this went down we
had about 1300 pages copied for him.
 We couldn't believe it, Tom E. Hawk was now a member. All of us told friends
and posted everywhere. It was great. We agreed to put him on Phoenix Project
to download some stuff and post. In other words the sysop would call him and
pay for the call. The sysop, Silver Hawke/Ron, got in touch with him and Tyron
told him to call back in an hour to log him on the system. Ron tried, the
phone rang and rang and rang. We felt he might being trying to dump us.
 Sound Wave/Andy and I called him up on three way and unfortunatly got an
answer.

<phone picked up>

<suddenly, loud music playing>

"Hello!!!" - Tyron
"Yeah, Tyron." - Andy
"Yes?" - Tyron
"This is Andy... Sound Wave" - Andy

<some strange sounds>

<click>

 I called him back to see if he'd listen to me.

<phone picked up>

<loud music>

"Hello!!" - Tyron (I am positive)
"Hey, is Tyron there?" - Mike
"Hold on, I'll get him." - Tyron

<suddenly, click>

 Obviously, he didn't want to talk to us or get on Phoenix Project. That same
night The Appler/Rick had a conference with many people on it from what I
heard. I was not personally on this conference. They decided to call Eddie and
Tyron and find out the truth.

"Okay Tyron, whats your group status right now?"
"Tyron!! Hang up don't listen to them." - Eddie
"Shut up, let him speak."
"I am in Digital Gang of course." - Tyron
"And what about the Legion?"
"What about them, I never told them I'd join." - Tyron
"Thats right! Ha" - Eddie (yelled like his master)

 From this point a massive rag war started. Obviously because Tom E. Hawk
lied. He said above not knowing Legion members were listening. Shortly, after
that I received a call and was put on the conference. Before let me explain
this Unknown Elite bit.
 I am not The Unknown Elite, I said I knew the Unknown Elite to protect myself
from this rag because I didn't want to be the scapegoat. Touch Tone/Bart and I
have never gotten along right from the start. I felt SA/Dave and Bart were
involved in the ragging of Dark Logic (so did the members) and Brian
Fist/Dennis. I assumed this from various posts by Dave and just figured Bart
(since they are in the same group) had to be involved with it. I felt it was
my job to get back at them. I told a few members I was going to rag on them as
the Unknown Elite. Since that was a famous ragging handle. So I did and put it
up on one board. That is the ONLY rag file I have written.
 When I was on this conference they told me what happened and, of course, I
was pissed. Suddenly someone asked, "Would you write a rag file on Triton as
the Unknown Elite?"

"How did you know?" - Mike
"Everyone knows about Rag Part II." (obviously someone told them)
"I see. Well why Eddie and not Tyron?" - Mike
"Because everyone feels Triton threatened Tom [Tyron] not to join, like
usual." - Warlock/Rich

 Everyone on the conference seemed to agree, even I did. I told them, "I'll
see what I can do." Before I knew it everyone blabbed that I was THE UNKNOWN
ELITE and that I wrote ALL the files. That is/was a rumor that is simply not
true. I did indeed plan on ragging on him for I was outragged at Eddie. He
seemed like such an elitist as I have been told in the past but never
believed.
 Anyway, a young boy named Time Warrior contacted Triton some how or vice
versa (I was on Eddie's three way. He was on hold while he was calling him). I
lifted the phone and found Time Warrior telling on Warlock/Rich, giving his
address and any other information he could think of. Eddie didn't even thank
him and hung up. He was now calling Rich. <ring, ring>

"Hello?" - Rich
"Hi you little bastard." - Eddie
"Wha? Who is this?" - Rich
"You know. Who was on the conference?" - Eddie
"They called me at random, I don't know." - Rich
"I am so sick and tired of your bullshit. Just tell us or I will release your address and phone numbers in a rag file." - Eddie

<there was some agruments between Rich's mother and himself. And with Eddie
and Rich's mother. All she bascally said was, "This is my phone".>

"Was Appler there?" - Eddie
"Maybe, maybe not." - Rich
"Just tell us, you fucking looser." - Eddie

<long pause>

"Who else was there?" - Eddie
"I don't know I said." - Rich
"You're full of shit. You better talk or I am going to come and kick your
ass." - Eddie
"Okay, right now you fucking bastard! Fucking thriteen year old." - Rich
"Yeah, ha." - Eddie
"Thats it I have had enough of you, your going in a rag file. Just tell us, we
won't tell them." - Eddie
"No!" - Rich
"Ed, he is not going to give us any information. Lets go." - Mike
"Thats it, your going in the file." - Eddie
"Well what if I told you?" - Rich
"You wouldn't get ragged. Come on dick." - Eddie
"Ahh. Okay, Appler ran it. Appler ran it. You fucking happy!" - Rich

<click, dropped from three-way>

"Okay Mike do you have Applers phone number?" - Eddie
"Sorry Ed, cannot do that. If he is to blame, I would look like a jerk." - Me
"Oh comeon Mike, dammit. You can give it to me." - Eddie
"Nope, no deal." - Mike
"Alright, well dial it for me. Hold on." - Eddie

<so when he said go I did dial it, but got his sisters answering machine.>

"Oh well. Listen I gotta run, call me back later. Okay?" - Mike
"Yeah, bye." - Eddie

<click>

 I guess that night they did get in touch with Appler and told him they would
blame him for being the Unknown Elite. The pirates code failed him and he
yelled, "It was The Martyr". I am glad Eddie didn't call me right then. About
3am, if anything I can thank him for that. (haha)
 I'd hate this file to go for hundreds of more blocks so I'll condense this
next part of 'The Truth'. Anyway Eddie called me.

"Hi Mike." - Eddie
"Ed?" - Mike
"Yep!" - Eddie
"Mike are you sure you weren't on that conference?" - Eddie
"Yes why?" - Mike
"Because someone told us your the Unknown Elite." - Eddie
"I am not." - Mike (I saw a scapegoat coming towards me.)
"Who told you that?" - Mike
"I can't say." - Eddie
"Why not?" - Mike
"Lets call Bart and see what he has to say." - Eddie

<click, click, beep , beep. Bart has arrived.>

 For the first part of the conversation it was Eddie testing me, feeling me
out to see if it was me. Bart was out and out accusing me of writing ALL the
files from 3 or 4 years back.

"Comeon Mike just tell us the truth. Are you?" - Bart
"Nope. I'll tell you what, I did write one file." - Mike (I felt it might have
been better to keep out of a rag. Instead I dragged myself in more.)
"You wrote the one on me right?" - Bart
"Ahh, yes I did." - Mike
"Haha, I knew it, I knew it." - Bart
"I DID IT BECAUSE YOU AND S.A. WERE RAGGING ON DARK LOGIC DAMMIT!" - Mike
"I didn't never rag on no one. How could you?" - Bart
"I assumed it. Because everytime, just about, there is trouble you're
involved. And exspecially since you run Coast to Coast." - Mike
"Ha, you're in deep trouble." - Bart
"So you are the Unknown Elite?" - Eddie
"No!! I only wrote that one file." - Mike
"Where you writing a text file on me?" - Eddie
"No!" - Mike
"Well, you're going to take the heat for all of the files. I knew it." - Eddie
"I know the real Unknown Elite!" - Mike (first mistake)
"You do. Who is he?" - Eddie
"He's my best friend. I cannot tell." - Mike (a lie to save myself from this
massive scapegoat for Eddie to attack)
.
.
.
"Well, you're going to take all the heat. You'll be sorry." - Eddie
"Shit man, I don't like people raggin' on me." - Bart
"Well, if you weren't involved, all I can say is sorry." - Mike
"No one fucks with me." - Bart
"Yeah right, your so tough." - Mike
"Mike, listen I will come and kick your ass. Its so easy." - Bart
"Yeah, and you'll meet three or four 357 Magnums." - Mike
"Oh good thats the kind of gun I carry." - Bart
"Should be a nice shoot out!!" - Mike
"Dude, I have connections. Probably more connections than anyone. I will get
you." - Bart
"Fuck you. I am not affriad of you." - Mike
"Haha, you're so stupid. I got more smarts than you." - Bart
"Ya, you're real smart. Listen to the way you talk, New York boy." - Mike
"I heard you carry a .45?" - Mike
"Ya, who'da hear that from?" - Bart
"From the Dee Jay." - Mike
"Ha, he's a dick." - Bart
"Yeah, he can be a royal dick. Well do you?" - Mike
"Hey! You just called Dee Jay a royal dick. I thought..." - Eddie
"..No! I said he can be." - Mike
"Dude, I could have people at you're house in twenty minutes. All of them with
guns." - Bart
"Hope they are willing to deal with the whole Boston Police first and the
local US Marines. I know people in both. I am shaking now. Haha." - Mike
"Haha, thats what they all say." - Bart
"Go right ahead try me bastard. I'll see you in hell!!!" - Mike
"I will. Don't think I wont.." - Bart
"FUCK OFF! Fucking communist. Just fucking drop. I am sick of your fucking
lame shit!" - Mike

<click, I hung up in rage>

 Well that is the truth and how we all got involved with it. Believe me, I
didn't like Eddie's little immature rag trick. Pretty sad. Thats why I am here
telling the truth. His rag file is vague and is mostly lies. For your
information (directed at Eddie), no one has called my voice number to rag. I
think some people are on my side. I refuse to post Eddie's phone number or
address. So I won't. Too immature. This material is pretty close to facts (I
cannot, obviously, remember every word) as they went on, and not someone's
opinion.
 Also I'd like to mention I was deleted off of Trade Center a board I have
been top uploader for the past 1 year and a month. I don't think that was
fair. I called it every day at the same time, and posted and uploaded. I was a
damn good user. Well, this gives me time to expand on other boards.
 
=--=

  Thanks a lot for reading this material, and happy modemming.


         >the Martyr/Mike

[12][View 1-50/?] Ret = Exits :
