
Common Name:    AMMONIUM PERMANGANATE
CAS Number:     13446-10-1
DOT Number:     NA 9190
------------------------------------------------------------
Substance number:   0110
Date:  February 1988
------------------------------------------------------------
HAZARD SUMMARY
* Ammonium Permanganate can affect you when breathed in.
* Exposure to Ammonium Permanganate can cause irritation of the
eyes, nose, throat and lungs.  * Contact can irritate the skin
and eyes.
* Ammonium Permanganate is a HIGHLY REACTIVE CHEMICAL and is a
DANGEROUS EXPLOSION HAZARD.


IDENTIFICATION
Ammonium Permanganate is a violet-brown or dark purple,
crystalline (sugar or sand-like) solid.


REASON FOR CITATION
* Ammonium Permanganate is on the Hazardous Substance List
because it is cited by DOT. * This chemical is on the Special
Health Hazard Substance List because it is REACTIVE.


HOW TO DETERMINE IF YOU ARE BEING EXPOSED
* Exposure to hazardous substances should be routinely evaluated.
This may include collecting personal and area air samples.  You
can obtain copies of sampling results from your employer. You
have a legal right to this information under OSHA 1910.20. * If
you think you are experiencing any work-related health problems,
see a doctor trained to recognize occupational diseases. Take
this Fact Sheet with you.


WORKPLACE EXPOSURE LIMITS
No occupational exposure limits have been established for
Ammonium Permanganate.  This does not mean that this substance is
not harmful.  Safe work practices should always be followed.


WAYS OF REDUCING EXPOSURE
* Where possible, enclose operations and use local exhaust
ventilation at the site of chemical release.  If local exhaust
ventilation or enclosure is not used, respirators should be worn.
* Wear protective work clothing.
* Wash thoroughly immediately after exposure to Ammonium
Permanganate. * Post hazard and warning information in the work
area.  In addition, as part of an ongoing education and training
effort, communicate all information on the health and safety
hazards of Ammonium Permanganate to potentially exposed workers.


HEALTH HAZARD INFORMATION

Acute Health Effects
The following acute (short-term) health effects may occur
immediately or shortly after exposure to Ammonium Permanganate:

* Ammonium Permanganate can irritate the eyes, nose, throat and
lungs.   * Contact can cause eye and skin irritation.

Chronic Health Effects
The following chronic (long-term) health effects can occur at
some time after exposure to Ammonium Permanganate and can last
for months or years:

Cancer Hazard
* According to the information presently available to the New
Jersey Department of Health, Ammonium Permanganate has not been
tested for its ability to cause cancer in animals.

Reproductive Hazard
* According to the information presently available to the New
Jersey Department of Health, Ammonium Permanganate has not been
tested for ts ability to adversely affect reproduction.

Other Long-Term Effects
* Very irritating substances may affect the lungs.  It is not
known whether Ammonium Permanganate can cause lung damage.


MEDICAL

Medical Testing
There is no special test for this chemical.  However, if illness
occurs or overexposure is suspected, medical attention is
recommended.

Any evaluation should include a careful history of past and
present symptoms with an exam.  Medical tests that look for
damage already done are not a substitute for controlling
exposure.
Request copies of your medical testing.  You have a legal right
to this information under OSHA 1910.20.


WORKPLACE CONTROLS AND PRACTICES
Unless a less toxic chemical can be substituted for a hazardous
substance, ENGINEERING CONTROLS are the most effective way of
reducing exposure.  The best protection is to enclose operations
and/or provide local exhaust ventilation at the site of chemical
release.  Isolating operations can also reduce exposure.  Using
respirators or protective equipment is less effective than the
controls mentioned above, but is sometimes necessary.

In evaluating the controls present in your workplace, consider:
(1) how hazardous the substance is, (2) how much of the substance
is released into the workplace and (3) whether harmful skin or
eye contact could occur.  Special controls should be in place for
highly toxic chemicals or when significant skin, eye, or
breathing exposures are possible.

In addition, the following controls are recommended:

* Before entering a confined space where Ammonium Permanganate
may be present, check to make sure that an explosive
concentration does not exist.

Good WORK PRACTICES can help to reduce hazardous exposures.  The
following work practices are recommended:

* Workers whose clothing has been contaminated by Ammonium
Permanganate should change into clean clothing promptly. *
Contaminated work clothes should be laundered by individuals who
have been informed of the hazards of exposure to Ammonium
Permanganate. * On skin contact with Ammonium Permanganate,
immediately wash or shower to remove the chemical. * Do not eat,
smoke, or drink where Ammonium Permanganate is handled,
processed, or stored, since the chemical can be swallowed.  Wash
hands carefully before eating or smoking. * Use a vacuum or a wet
method to reduce dust during clean-up. Do not dry sweep.

FIRE HAZARDS

* Ammonium Permanganate may explode at temperatures above 140oF.
* POISONOUS GASES ARE PRODUCED IN FIRE, including Nitrogen Oxides
and Ammonia. * Use dry chemical, CO2, water spray, or foam
extinguishers. * CONTAINERS MAY EXPLODE IN FIRE.
* Use water spray to keep fire-exposed containers cool.
* If employees are expected to fight fires, they must be trained
and equipped as stated in OSHA 1910.156.


SPILLS AND EMERGENCIES

If Ammonium Permanganate is spilled, take the following steps:
* Restrict persons not wearing protective equipment from area of
spill until clean-up is complete.  * Collect powdered material in
the most convenient and safe manner and deposit in sealed
containers. * Keep Ammonium Permanganate out of a confined space,
such as a sewer, because of the possibility of an explosion,
unless the sewer is designed to prevent the build-up of explosive
concentrations. * It may be necessary to contain and dispose of

Ammonium Permanganate as a HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Contact your
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) or your regional
office of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for
specific recommendations.


HANDLING AND STORAGE

* Prior to working with Ammonium Permanganate you should be
trained on its proper handling and storage. * Ammonium
Permanganate must be stored to avoid contact with Heat, Friction,
Organic and OXIDIZABLE MATERIAL, FUELS, and COMBUSTIBLES since
violent reactions occur. * Always store Ammonium Permanganate at
temperatures below 140 degrees F (60 degrees C).   * Protect
containers from shock as Ammonium Permanganate may explode.


FIRST AID

Eye Contact
* Immediately flush with large amounts of water for at least 15
minutes, occasionally lifting upper and lower lids.

Skin Contact
* Quickly remove contaminated clothing.  Immediately wash
contaminated skin with large amounts of water.

Breathing
* Remove the person from exposure.


PHYSICAL DATA

Water Solubility: Soluble


CHEMICAL NAME

Permanganic Acid, Ammonium Salt

