
Common Name:    CALCIUM PHOSPHIDE

CAS Number:     1305-99-3
DOT Number:     UN 1360
------------------------------------------------------------
Substance number:   0329
Date:  8/1/87           Revision:
------------------------------------------------------------
HAZARD SUMMARY
* Calcium Phosphide can affect you when breathed in.
* Phosphine gas is a highly toxic gas released when Calcium
Phosphide is wet or has contacted moisture.  Consult the NJ DOH
Hazardous Substance Fact Sheet on Phosphine. * Calcium Phosphide
is a DANGEROUS FIRE and EXPLOSION HAZARD.


IDENTIFICATION
Calcium Phosphide is a reddish-brown crystalline (sugar or sand-
like) or a grey granular solid.  It is used to kill rodents and
in explosives and fireworks.

REASON FOR CITATION
* Calcium Phosphide is on the Hazardous Substance List because it
is cited by DOT.


HOW TO DETERMINE IF YOU ARE BEING EXPOSED
* Exposure to hazardous substances should be routinely evaluated.
This may include collecting personal and area air samples.  You
can obtain copies of sampling results from your employer. You
have a legal right to this information under OSHA 1910.20. * If
you think you are experiencing any work-related health problems,
see a doctor trained to recognize occupational diseases. Take
this Fact Sheet with you.


WORKPLACE EXPOSURE LIMITS
No occupational exposure limits have been established for Calcium
Phosphide.  This does not mean that this substance is not
harmful.  Safe work practices should always be followed.


WAYS OF REDUCING EXPOSURE
* Where possible, enclose operations and use local exhaust
ventilation at the site of chemical release.  If local exhaust
ventilation or enclosure is not used, respirators should be worn.
* Wear protective work clothing.
* Dry brush or vacuum material thoroughly from skin immediately
after exposure to Calcium Phosphide and follow with large amounts
of water. * Post hazard and warning information in the work area.
In addition, as part of an ongoing education and training effort,
communicate all information on the health and safety hazards of
Calcium Phosphide to potentially exposed workers.


HEALTH HAZARD INFORMATION

Acute Health Effects
The following acute (short-term) health effects may occur
immediately or shortly after exposure to Calcium Phosphide:

* Exposure to Calcium Phosphide that has contacted moisture can
expose you to Phosphine gas which is highly toxic and dangerous.
consult the NJ DOH Hazardous Substance Fact Sheet on phosphine.

Chronic Health Effects
The following chronic (long-term) health effects can occur at
some time after exposure to Calcium Phosphide and can last for
months or years:

Cancer Hazard
* According to the information presently available to the New
Jersey Department of Health, Calcium Phosphide has not been
tested for its ability to cause cancer in animals.

Reproductive Hazard
* According to the information presently available to the New
Jersey Department of Health, Calcium Phosphide has not been
tested for its ability to adversely affect reproduction.

Other Long-Term Effects
* No chronic (long-term) health effects are known at this time.


MEDICAL

Medical Testing
There is no special test for this chemical.  However, if illness
occurs or overexposure is suspected, medical attention is
recommended.

Any evaluation should include a careful history of past and
present symptoms with an exam.  Medical tests that look for
damage already done are not a substitute for controlling
exposure.

Request copies of your medical testing.  You have a legal right
to this information under OSHA 1910.20.


WORKPLACE CONTROLS AND PRACTICES

Unless a less toxic chemical can be substituted for a hazardous
substance, ENGINEERING CONTROLS are the most effective way of
reducing exposure.  The best protection is to enclose operations
and/or provide local exhaust ventilation at the site of chemical
release.  Isolating operations can also reduce exposure.  Using
respirators or protective equipment is less effective than the
controls mentioned above, but is sometimes necessary.

In evaluating the controls present in your workplace, consider:
(1) how hazardous the substance is, (2) how much of the substance
is released into the workplace and (3) whether harmful skin or
eye contact could occur.  Special controls should be in place for
highly toxic chemicals or when significant skin, eye, or
breathing exposures are possible.

Good WORK PRACTICES can help to reduce hazardous exposures.  The
following work practices are recommended:

* Workers whose clothing has been contaminated by Calcium
Phosphide should change into clean clothing promptly. *
Contaminated work clothes should be laundered by individuals who
have been informed of the hazards of exposure to Calcium
Phosphide. * On skin contact with Calcium Phosphide, immediately
wash or shower to remove the chemical.  At the end of the
workshift, wash any areas of the body that may have contacted
Calcium Phosphide, whether or not known skin contact has
occurred. * Do not eat, smoke, or drink where Calcium Phosphide
is handled, processed, or stored, since the chemical can be
swallowed.  Wash hands carefully before eating or smoking. * Use
a vacuum to reduce dust during clean-up. Do not dry sweep.

FIRE HAZARDS

* Calcium Phosphide releases highly flammable Phosphine gas on
contact with moisture. * DO NOT USE WATER OR FOAM EXTINGUISHERS.
* Use dry chemical, soda ash, or lime extinguishers.
* If employees are expected to fight fires, they must be trained
and equipped as stated in OSHA 1910.156.


SPILLS AND EMERGENCIES

If Calcium Phosphide is spilled, take the following steps:

* Restrict persons not wearing protective equipment from area of
spill until clean-up is complete.  * Remove all ignition sources.
* Ventilate area of spill.
* Collect powdered material in the most convenient and safe
manner and deposit in sealed containers. * It may be necessary to
contain and dispose of Calcium Phosphide as a HAZARDOUS WASTE.
Contact your state Department of Environmental Protection (DEP)
or your regional office of the federal Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) for specific recommendations.


HANDLING AND STORAGE

* Prior to working with Calcium Phosphide you should be trained
on its proper handling and storage. * Store in tightly closed
containers in a cool, well-ventilated area away from STRONG
OXIDIZERS (such as CHLORINE, BROMINE and FLUORINE), STRONG ACIDS
(such as HYDROCHLORIC, SULFURIC and NITRIC), OXYGEN, SULFUR or
MOISTURE since violent reactions occur. * Sources of ignition,
such as smoking and open flames, are prohibited where Calcium
Phosphide is handled, used, or stored. * Use only nonsparking
tools and equipment, especially when opening and closing
containers of Calcium Phosphide. * Wherever Calcium Phosphide is
used, handled, manufactured, or stored, use explosion-proof
electrical equipment and fittings. * Do not store large amounts
of this material in a room protected by WATER sprinkler systems.
* Protect containers against physical damage.


FIRST AID

Eye Contact
* Immediately flush with large amounts of water, after quickly
wiping excess Calcium Phosphide from face with dry cloth.
Continue without stopping for at least 30 minutes, occasionally
lifting upper and lower lids. Seek medical attention immediately.

Skin Contact
* Remove contaminated clothing.  Remove Calcium Phosphide from
skin with a dry cloth.  Wash with soap and water, rinsing with
large amounts of water.

Breathing
* Remove the person from exposure.
* Begin rescue breathing if breathing has stopped and CPR if
heart action has stopped. * Transfer promptly to a medical
facility.

