
Common Name:    DECABORANE

CAS Number:     17702-41-9
DOT Number:     UN 1868
------------------------------------------------------------
Substance number:  0597
Date:  February 1989   Revision:  First
------------------------------------------------------------
HAZARD SUMMARY
* Decaborane can affect you when breathed in and by passing
through your skin. * Exposure can cause restlessness, headaches,
dizziness, and nausea.  High concentrations can cause muscle
twitching, convulsions, unconsciousness, and death.  High or
repeated exposures may damage the liver and kidneys. * Vapor
exposure may cause clouding of the eyes with loss of vision.
Contact can cause severe eye burns and may also irritate the
skin. * Decaborane may explode on contact with heat or flame, or
with oxygenated or halogenated solvents.  Contact with water can
form flammable Hydrogen gas.


IDENTIFICATION
Decaborane is a colorless or white crystalline solid with a
bitter odor.  It is used in rocket propellants and in making
other chemicals.


REASON FOR CITATION
* Decaborane is on the Hazardous Substance List because it is
regulated by OSHA and cited by ACGIH, NFPA, DOT and EPA.


HOW TO DETERMINE IF YOU ARE BEING EXPOSED
* Exposure to hazardous substances should be routinely evaluated.
This may include collecting personal and area air samples.  You
can obtain copies of sampling results from your employer. You
have a legal right to this information under OSHA 1910.20. * If
you think you are experiencing any work-related health problems,
see a doctor trained to recognize occupational diseases. Take
this Fact Sheet with you.


WORKPLACE EXPOSURE LIMITS
OSHA: The legal airborne permissible exposure limit (PEL) is 0.05
ppm averaged over an 8-hour workshift and 0.15 ppm not to be
exceeded during any (15 minute) work period.  (Final Rule January
1989).

ACGIH: The recommended airborne exposure limit is 0.05 ppm
averaged over an 8-hour workshift and 0.15 ppm as a STEL (short
term exposure limit).

* The above exposure limits are for air levels only. When skin
contact also occurs, you may be overexposed, even though air
levels are less than the limits listed above.


WAYS OF REDUCING EXPOSURE
* Where possible, enclose operations and use local exhaust
ventilation at the site of chemical release.  If local exhaust
ventilation or enclosure is not used, respirators should be worn.
* Wear protective work clothing.
* Wash thoroughly immediately after exposure to Decaborane and at
the end of the workshift. * Post hazard and warning information
in the work area.  In addition, as part of an ongoing education
and training effort, communicate all information on the health
and safety hazards of Decaborane to potentially exposed workers.


HEALTH HAZARD INFORMATION

Acute Health Effects
The following acute (short-term) health effects may occur
immediately or shortly after exposure to Decaborane:
* Exposure can cause restlessness, headaches, fatigue,
clumsiness, nausea, hiccups and shaking.  High levels can cause
muscle twitches, convulsions, unconsciousness, and death. *
Contact can cause severe eye burns, leading to permanent damage.
It may also irritate the skin, causing a rash or burning feeling
on contact. * Exposure to the vapor can irritate the eyes, nose,
and throat.

Chronic Health Effects
The following chronic (long-term) health effects can occur at
some time after exposure to Decaborane and can last for months or
years:

Cancer Hazard
* According to the information presently available to the New
Jersey Department of Health, Decaborane has not been tested for
its ability to cause cancer in animals.

Reproductive Hazard
* According to the information presently available to the New
Jersey Department of Health, Decaborane has not been tested for
its ability to affect reproduction.

Other Long-Term Effects
* Repeated exposures may affect the ability to concentrate and
damage the nervous system, causing tremors and spasms. *
Decaborane may damage the liver and kidneys.
* Overexposure may cause clouding of the cornea and eyes with
loss of vision.


MEDICAL

Medical Testing
Before beginning employment and at regular times after that, the
following is recommended:

* Examination of the nervous system.

If symptoms develop or overexposure is suspected, the following
may be useful:

* Liver and kidney function tests.
* Exam of the eyes and vision.

Any evaluation should include a careful history of past and
present symptoms with an exam.  Medical tests that look for
damage already done are not a substitute for controlling
exposure.

Request copies of your medical testing.  You have a legal right
to this information under OSHA 1910.20.

Mixed Exposures
Because smoking can cause heart disease, as well as lung cancer,
emphysema, and other respiratory problems, it may worsen
respiratory conditions caused by chemical exposure.  Even if you
have smoked for a long time, stopping now will reduce your risk
of developing health problems.


WORKPLACE CONTROLS AND PRACTICES

Unless a less toxic chemical can be substituted for a hazardous
substance, ENGINEERING CONTROLS are the most effective way of
reducing exposure.  The best protection is to enclose operations
and/or provide local exhaust ventilation at the site of chemical
release.  Isolating operations can also reduce exposure.  Using
respirators or protective equipment is less effective than the
controls mentioned above, but is sometimes necessary.

In evaluating the controls present in your workplace, consider:
(1) how hazardous the substance is, (2) how much of the substance
is released into the workplace and (3) whether harmful skin or
eye contact could occur.  Special controls should be in place for
highly toxic chemicals or when significant skin, eye, or
breathing exposures are possible.

In addition, the following control is recommended:

* Where possible, automatically transfer Decaborane from drums or
other storage containers to process containers.

Good WORK PRACTICES can help to reduce hazardous exposures.  The
following work practices are recommended:

* Workers whose clothing has been contaminated by Decaborane
should change into clean clothing promptly. * Contaminated work
clothes should be laundered by individuals who have been informed
of the hazards of exposure to Decaborane. * Eye wash fountains in
the immediate work area should be provided for emergency use. *
On skin contact with Decaborane, immediately wash or shower to
remove the chemical. * Wash any areas of the body that may have
contacted Decaborane at the end of each work day, whether or not
known skin contact has occurred. * Do not eat, smoke, or drink
where Decaborane is handled, processed, or stored, since the
chemical can be swallowed.  Wash hands carefully before eating or
smoking. * Do not dry sweep for clean-up. Use a vacuum or a wet
method to reduce dust during clean-up.
FIRE HAZARDS

* The solid can self-ignite in Oxygen, and mixtures with
oxidizing materials can be explosive. * Decaborane is a
combustible solid.
* Use dry chemical or foam extinguishers.  Avoid halogenated
extinguishing agents, as they can react violently. * POISONOUS
GASES ARE PRODUCED IN FIRE.
* CONTAINERS MAY EXPLODE IN FIRE.
* If employees are expected to fight fires, they must be trained
and equipped as stated in OSHA 1910.156.


SPILLS AND EMERGENCIES

If Decaborane is spilled or leaked, take the following steps:

* Restrict persons not wearing protective equipment from area of
spill or leak until cleanup is complete.  * Remove all ignition
sources.
* Ventilate area of spill or leak.
* Collect powdered material in the most convenient manner and
deposit in sealed containers. * It may be necessary to contain
and dispose of Decaborane as a HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Contact your
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) or your regional
office of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for
specific recommendations.


HANDLING AND STORAGE

* Prior to working with Decaborane you should be trained on its
proper handling and storage. * Decaborane must be stored to avoid
contact with OXIDIZERS, such as PERMANGANATES, NITRATES,
PEROXIDES, CHLORATES, and PERCHLORATES; or HALOGENATED COMPOUNDS,
since violent reactions occur. * Store in tightly closed
containers in a cool, well ventilated area away from HEAT and
WATER.  HEAT can cause an explosion.  Contact with WATER can
slowly produce flammable Hydrogen gas. Detached storage is
preferable. * Sources of ignition such as smoking and open flames
are prohibited where Decaborane is handled, used, or stored.


FIRST AID

Eye Contact
* Immediately flush with large amounts of water for at least 15

minutes, occasionally lifting upper and lower lids.  Seek medical
attention immediately.

Skin Contact
* Quickly remove contaminated clothing.  Immediately wash area
with large amounts of soap and water.  Seek medical attention
immediately.

Breathing
* Remove the person from exposure.
* Begin rescue breathing if breathing has stopped and CPR if
heart action has stopped. * Transfer promptly to a medical
facility.


PHYSICAL DATA

Vapor Pressure:  0.05 mm Hg at 77 degrees F (25 degrees C)
Flash Point:  176 degrees F (80 degrees C)
Water Solubility: Insoluble


OTHER COMMONLY USED NAMES

Chemical Name:
Decaborane

Other Names and Formulations:
Boron Hydride; Nido-Decaborane; Decaboron Tetradecahydride

