 
 Common Name:    Diazomethane 
 CAS Number:     334-88-3 
 DOT Number:     None 
 Date:           March, 1986 
 ----------------------------------------- 
 
 HAZARD SUMMARY 
 *    Diazomethane can affect you when breathed in. 
 *    It is extremely toxic.  Exposure can cause severe lung damage 
      with symptoms of coughing, chest pain, shortness of breath, 
      fever and fatigue.  These may not be felt until hours or days 
      after exposure and this can cause death. 
 *    Exposure to the gas or liquid can cause severe skin burns and 
      eye damage. 
 *    Repeated exposures, even at low levels, may cause an asthma- 
 like lung allergy. 
 *    Heat, sunlight, or other bright lights can cause it to 
      explode.  Contact with alkali metals, drying agents and rough 
      edges can also cause explosions. 
 
 IDENTIFICATION 
 Diazomethane is a yellow gas at room temperature.  It can also 
 exist as a liquid under pressure.  It is used in making other 
 chemicals. 
 
 REASON FOR CITATION 
 *    Diazomethane is on the Hazardous Substance List because it is 
      regulated by OSHA and cited by ACGIH. 
 
 HOW TO DETERMINE IF YOU ARE BEING EXPOSED 
 *    Exposure to hazardous substances should be routinely 
      evaluated. This may include collecting personal and area air 
      samples.  You can obtain copies of sampling results from your 
      employer. You have a legal right to this information under 
      OSHA 1910.20. 
 *    If you think you are experiencing any work-related health 
      problems, see a doctor trained to recognize occupational 
      diseases. Take this Fact Sheet with you. 
 ----------------------------------------- 
 
 WORKPLACE EXPOSURE LIMITS 
 OSHA:     The legal airborne permissible exposure limit (PEL) is 
           0.2 ppm averaged over an 8-hour work-shift. 
 
 ACGIH:    The recommended airborne exposure limit  is  0.2 ppm  
           averaged over an 8-hour workshift. 
 
 WAYS OF REDUCING EXPOSURE 
 *    Where possible, enclose operations and use local exhaust 
      ventilation at the site of chemical release.  If local exhaust 
      ventilation or enclosure is not used, respirators should be 
      worn. 
 *    Wear protective work clothing. 
 *    Wash thoroughly immediately after exposure to Diazomethane. 
 *    Post hazard and warning information in the work area.  In 
      addition, as part of an ongoing education and training effort, 
      communicate all information on the health and safety hazards 
      of Diazomethane to potentially exposed workers.  
 
 This Fact Sheet is a summary source of information of all potential 
 and most severe health hazards that may result from exposure.  
 Duration of exposure, concentration of the substance and other 
 factors will affect your susceptibility to any of the potential 
 effects described below. 
 ------------------------------------------ 
 
 HEALTH HAZARD INFORMATION 
 
 Acute Health Effects 
 The following acute (short-term) health effects may occur 
 immediately or shortly after exposure to Diazomethane: 
 
 *    Breathing Diazomethane gas or vapors can cause severe lung 
      damage.  Immediate symptoms may include coughing, wheezing, 
      shortness of breath, chest pain, dizziness, fatigue, headache, 
      and irritation of the mouth, nose and throat. Nausea, 
      vomiting, and fever may also occur.  This can progress to a 
      build-up of fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema) and death.  
      The effects may not be felt for hours or days after exposure. 
 *    Contact with Diazomethane gas, liquefied gas, or solutions can 
      cause severe eye burns and permanent damage. 
 *    Skin contact can cause severe irritation, burns and scaling of 
      the affected body area.  Similar symptoms may occur on the 
      skin inside the mouth, nose and throat following inhalation. 
 
 Chronic Health Effects 
 The following chronic (long-term) health effects can occur at some 
 time after exposure to Diazomethane and can last for months or 
 years: 
 
 Cancer Hazard 
 *    According to the information presently available to the New 
      Jersey Department of Health, Diazomethane has not been tested 
      for its ability to cause cancer in animals. 
 
 Reproductive Hazard 
 *    According to the information presently available to the New 
      Jersey Department of Health, Diazomethane has not been tested 
      for its ability to affect reproduction. 
 
 Other Long-Term Effects 
 *    Repeated exposure to Diazomethane can cause an asthma-like 
      lung allergy.  Symptoms may include coughing, wheezing, and 
      fatigue.  The symptoms may become progressively worse with 
      repeated attacks, and permanent lung damage (emphysema) may 
      result. 
 
 MEDICAL 
 
 Medical Testing 
 Before beginning employment and at regular times after that, the 
 following are recommended: 
 
 *    Lung function tests.  These may be normal at first if the 
      person is not having an attack at the time. 
 
 If symptoms develop or overexposure is suspected, the following may 
 be useful: 
 
 *    Evaluation by a qualified allergist, including careful 
      exposure history and special testing, may help diagnose 
      allergy. 
 *    Consider chest x-ray after acute over-exposure. 
 
 Any evaluation should include a careful history of past and present 
 symptoms with an exam.  Medical tests that look for damage already 
 done are not a substitute for controlling exposure. 
 
 Request copies of your medical testing.  You have a legal right to 
 this information under OSHA 1910.20. 
 
 Mixed Exposures 
 Because smoking can cause heart disease, as well as lung cancer, 
 emphysema, and other respiratory problems, it may worsen 
 respiratory conditions caused by chemical exposure.  Even if you 
 have smoked for a long time, stopping now will reduce your risk of  
 developing health problems. 
 
 WORKPLACE CONTROLS AND PRACTICES 
 
 Unless a less toxic chemical can be substituted for a hazardous 
 substance, ENGINEERING CONTROLS are the most effective way of 
 reducing exposure.  The best protection is to enclose operations 
 and/or provide local exhaust ventilation at the site of chemical 
 release.  Isolating operations can also reduce exposure.  Using 
 respirators or protective equipment is less effective than the 
 controls mentioned above, but is sometimes necessary. 
 
 In evaluating the controls present in your workplace, consider: (1) 
 how hazardous the substance is, (2) how much of the substance is 
 released into the workplace and (3) whether harmful skin or eye 
 contact could occur.  Special controls should be in place  for 
 highly toxic chemicals or when significant skin, eye, or breathing 
 exposures are possible. In addition, the following control is 
 recommended: 
 
 *    Where possible, automatically transfer Diazomethane from 
      cylinders or other storage containers to process containers. 
 
 Good WORK PRACTICES can help to reduce hazardous exposures.  The 
 following work practices are recommended: 
 
 *    Workers whose clothing has been contaminated by liquid 
      Diazomethane should change into clean clothing promptly. 
 *    Do not take contaminated work clothes home.  Family members 
      could be exposed. 
 *    Contaminated work clothes should be laundered by individuals 
      who have been informed of the hazards of exposure to 
      Diazomethane. 
 *    Eye wash fountains should be provided in the immediate work 
      area for emergency use. 
 *    If there is the possibility of skin exposure, emergency shower 
      facilities should be provided. 
 *    On skin contact with Diazomethane, immediately wash or shower 
      to remove the chemical. 
 *    Do not eat, smoke, or drink where Diazomethane is handled, 
      processed, or stored, since the chemical can be swallowed.  
      Wash hands carefully before eating or smoking. 
 
 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT 
 
 WORKPLACE CONTROLS ARE BETTER THAN PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. 
 However, for some jobs (such as outside work, confined space entry, 
 jobs done only once in a while, or jobs done while workplace 
 controls are being installed), personal protective equipment may be 
 appropriate. 
 
 The following recommendations are only guidelines and may not apply 
 to every situation. 
 
 Clothing 
 *    Avoid skin contact with Diazomethane.  Wear protective gloves 
      and clothing. Safety equipment suppliers/manufacturers can 
      provide recommendations on the most protective glove/clothing 
      material for your operation. 
 *    All protective clothing (suits, gloves, footwear, headgear) 
      should be clean, available each day, and put on before work. 
 
 Eye Protection 
 *    Wear splash-proof chemical goggles and face shield when 
      working with liquid Diazomethane, or gas-proof goggles when 
      working with the gas, unless full facepiece respiratory 
      protection is worn. 
 
 Respiratory Protection 
 IMPROPER USE OF RESPIRATORS IS DANGEROUS.  Such equipment should 
 only be used if the employer has a written program that takes into 
 account workplace conditions, requirements for worker training, 
 respirator fit testing and medical exams, as described in OSHA 
 1910.134. 
 
 *    Where the potential exists for exposures over 0.2 ppm, use a 
      MSHA/NIOSH approved supplied-air respirator with a full 
      facepiece operated in the positive pressure mode or with a 
      full facepiece, hood, or helmet in the continuous flow mode, 
      or use a MSHA/NIOSH approved self-contained breathing 
      apparatus with a full facepiece operated in pressure-demand or 
      other positive pressure mode. 
 *    Exposure to 10 ppm is immediately dangerous to life and 
      health.  If the possibility of exposures above 10 ppm exists, 
      use a MSHA/NIOSH approved self-contained breathing apparatus 
      with a full facepiece operated in continuous flow or other 
      positive pressure mode. 
 
 HANDLING AND STORAGE 
 
 *    Prior to working with Diazomethane you should be trained on 
      its proper handling and storage. 
 *    Diazomethane must be stored to avoid contact with ALKALI 
      METALS, such as LITHIUM, SODIUM, or POTASSIUM; or DRYING 
      AGENTS, such as CALCIUM SULFATE, since violent reactions 
      occur. 
 *    Store in tightly closed containers in a cool well-ventilated 
      area away from HEAT and LIGHT.  The pure liquid material 
      explodes above 302oF, whereas impure material explodes at 
      lower temperatures.  Exposure of the gas or solutions to 
      SUNLIGHT or other  BRIGHT LIGHTING may cause an explosion.  
      Contact with ROUGH EDGES, such as found on ground glass, may 
      cause an explosion.  Safety barriers or shields should be used 
      to protect workers from accidental explosions. 
 *    Sources of ignition such as smoking and open flames are 
      prohibited where Diazomethane is handled, used, or stored. 
 *    Metal containers used in the transfer of 5 gallons or more of 
      Diazomethane should be grounded and bonded.  Drums must be 
      equipped with self-closing valves, pressure vacuum bungs, and 
      flame arresters. 
 *    Use only non-sparking tools and equipment, especially when 
      opening and closing containers of Diazomethane. 
 *    Wherever Diazomethane is used, handled, manufactured, or 
      stored, use explosion-proof electrical equipment and fittings. 
 
 Common Name: Diazomethane 
 DOT Number: None 
 DOT Emergency Guide code: No Citation 
 CAS Number: 334-88-3 
 ----------------------------------------- 
 Hazard rating        NJ DOH    NFPA  
 FLAMMABILITY                 Not Found 
 REACTIVITY                   Not Found 
 EXPLOSIVE LIQUID  
 ---------------------------------------- 
 Hazard Rating Key:  0=minimal; 1=slight; 2=moderate; 3=serious; 
 4=severe 
 
 FIRE HAZARDS 
 
 *    Diazomethane will explode in a fire.  In the event of a fire, 
      immediately evacuate the area. 
