This document can be acquired from a sub-directory coombspapers via anonymous 
FTP and COOMBSQUEST gopher on the node COOMBS.ANU.EDU.AU The document's 
ftp filename and the full directory path are given in the coombspapers top 
level INDEX file.
date of the document's last update/modification {TIME \@ "dd/MM/yy"|03/09/93}

This file is the work of Stan Rosenthal. It has been placed here, with his 
kind permission, by Bill Fear. The author has asked that no hard copies, 
ie. paper copies, are made.

Stan Rosenthal may be contacted at 44 High street, St. Davids, Pembrokeshire, 
Dyfed, Wales, UK.
Bill Fear may be contacted at 29 Blackweir Terrace, Cathays, Cardiff, South 
Glamorgan, Wales, UK. email fear@thor.cf.ac.uk.
Please use email as first method of contact, if possible. Messages can be 
sent to Stan Rosenthal via the above email address - they will be forwarded 
on in person by myself.

................................Beginning of file............................


                         THE SONG OF CH'AN TAO CHIA
                        (THE PRECEPTS OF ZEN TAOISM)

Have compassion for all sentient beings,
causing them no unnecessary hurt, nor needless harm.
Refrain from needless competitiveness,
from contriving for self-advantage,
and from subjugating others.

When accepting authority over others,
know also that you accept responsibility for their wellbeing.
Value true friendship, and fulfill your obligations,
rather than striving with egotistical motive.

Seek liberation from the negative passions
of hatred, envy, greed and rage,
and especially from delusion,
deceit and sensory desire.
Learn to let go of that which cannot be owned,
or which is destroyed by grasping.

Seek the courage to be;
defend yourself, and your convictions.
Accept transience, the inevitable and the irrevocable.
Know that change exists in everything.
Negate the barriers to your awakening;
discover the positive in the negative,
and seek a meaningful purpose in what you do.

Be just and honourable;
take pride in what you do,
rather than being proud of what you have accomplished.
Having humility and respect,
give thanks to those from whom you learn,
or who have otherwise helped you.
Act in harmony with your fellow beings,
with nature, and with inanimate objects.

Know that a thing or an action
which may seem of little value to oneself,
may be a priceless treasure to another.
Help those who are suffering or disadvantaged,
and as you yourself become awakened,
help those who seek to make real their own potential.
Know that there is no shame in questioning.
Be diligent in your practice,
and on hearing the music of the absolute,
do not be so foolish as to try to sing its song.
Remember to renew the source,
in order to retain good health.

Seek neither brilliance nor the void;
just think deeply, and work hard.
When still, be as the mountain;
when in movement be as the dragon riding the wind.
Be aware at all times,
like the tiger which only seems to sleep,
and at all times let the mind be like running water.

When you are required to act,
remember that right motive
is essential to right action,
just as right thought is essential to right words.
Beware of creating burdens
for yourself or others to carry.
Act with necessary distinction,
being both creative and receptive,
and transcending subject/object dichotomy.

Know that you are not the centre of the universe,
but learn to put the universe at your centre
by accepting the instant of your being.
Seek security within yourself,
rather than in others.
Know that even great worldly wealth,
and the accumulation of material things
are of little worth,
compared with the priceless treasures;
love, peace and the freedom to grow.

Allow yourself to be,
so that your life may become a time of blossoming.

..................................End of file..................................

                                         
