This document can be acquired from a sub-directory coombspapers via anonymous
FTP and COOMBSQUEST gopher on the node COOMBS.ANU.EDU.AU

The document's ftp filename and the full directory path are given in the
coombspapers top level INDEX file.

Date of the document's last update/modification 03/09/93
--------------------------------------------------------
HISTORICAL ROOTS OF ZEN
original filename: zenisnot.txt
--------------------------------------------------------

This file is the work of Stan Rosenthal. It has been placed here, with his kind
permission, by Bill Fear. The author has asked that no hard copies, ie. paper
copies, are made.

Stan Rosenthal may be contacted at 44 High street, St. Davids, Pembrokeshire,
Dyfed, Wales, UK. Bill Fear may be contacted at 29 Blackweir Terrace, Cathays,
Cardiff, South Glamorgan, Wales, UK. Tel (0222) 228858 email fear@thor.cf.ac.uk.
Please use email as first method of contact, if possible. Messages can be sent
to Stan Rosenthal via the above email address - they will be forwarded on in
person by myself  -  B.F.

NOTE:
You may find and odd sentence or missing information every now and again in
the files. Hopefully not to frequently. This is because the files were
originally written on a machine using CP/M and had to be converted to dos
format. Many of the 5.25 disks were very old and had bad sectors - thus missing
info.
................................Beginning of file...............................


Much has already been written of Zen from within a Buddhist context, but Zen
itself is not the prerogative of any specific religious group, even though in
its modern form, a large proportion of its practitioners are drawn from
followers of the Buddha, Guatarma Siddhartha.  Historically of course, Zen
probably owes its major debt to its Buddhist practitioners for their
systemization of its concepts, and even more than this, it must be remembered
that the founder, or first codefier of Zen, The Boddhidharma, was also the
twenty-eighth Buddhist patriarch in direct teaching descent from the Buddha
himself.

However, in any serious discussion of Zen, we must also recall that something
relating to the development of Zen did occur during the four hundred years
prior to 526 CE, when the Boddhidharma arrived in the Shao-lin Temple in the
Hohan Province of Northern China, to codefy Zen practice during his prolonged
meditation, now know as 'the nine years before the wall'.  What occurred during
the four hundred year period preceding the arrival of the Boddhidharma in China
was that following the establishment of Shao-lin as a major, and possibly the
first, Buddhist Temple in China in 100 CE, there was a considerable dialogue
between the Buddhist monks who inhabited the temple, and many of the people who
were indiginous to the area, and who called themselves Taoists; a fact which is
hardly surprising considering that the temple was previously a Taoist retreat.

At this point, it will probably help to clarify a number of issues if we
understand that even by 100 CE there has developed two forms of Taoism, the
earliest Tao-chia, being philosophical Taoism based upon Yin Yang theory as
explained in the esoteric theory of 'changes' ('I Ching') and in the later work,
'the Way of Virtue' ('Tao Te Ching') by the philosopher Lao Tzu who lived
towards the end of the Period of the Warring States (c 600 BCE).  The later
form of Taoism known as Tao-chiao, although based upon its philosophical
precedessor, was practiced as a religion rather than a philosophy, and made
considerable use of both shamanistic and mystical religious practices,
bordering on the occult, and by 100 CE the followers of religious Taoism far
outnumbered the philosophical Taoists.

It is probable that by the beginning of the Christian era in the West, the
philosophical Taoists had lost their influence, and continued their work only
in remote regions, far from the large cities and seats of government.  We know
with certainty that by this time religious Taoism held considerable influence
in what was, by now, the Chinese kingdom or empire.  It was to the remote
provinces that the remaining followers of philosophical Taoism had travelled,
and so it probably was that it was in such areas as these that the dislohur
between Mahayana Buddhism and Taoist Philospphy began.  It was the Buddhist
monks, practising the compassion for which many Buddhist sects are stil
reknowned, who gave succour to the 'exiled' Taoist philosphers, who in turn
shared their knowledge with their Buddhist benefactors.

So it is that it is now believed that on his arrival at Shao-lin, the
Boddhidharma found something quite foreign to the Indian practice of Buddhism,
strange but not alien.  It was to prove to be the Boddhidharma's undertaking to
codify the synergized practices he discovered, but even scant knowledge of the
life of the Buddha himself provides a clue as to why the philosophy of Taoism
would not have been completely foreign to the Boddhidharma, and would certainly
not have been unknown to the Buddha himself.  

It is well documented that the Prince, Guattama Siddhartha, spent many years as
a peripatetic seeker prior to his enlightenment, and many of his conversations
with 'wise men' are described in detail.  Since trade had taken place between
China and India for many hundreds of years before the birth of the Buddha,
trade routes were of course well established, and it is more than likely that
young seeker would have used such routes, not only as a means of travel, but
also in order to meet with strangers to his own land.  As it the case even
today, much can be learned about foreign ideas, philosophies and customs
through trading in artifacts, and many goods are decorated with the symbols
indiginous to their place of origin.  With such a brilliant intellect as we
know Guttama Siddhartha possessed, it is indeed unlikely that he would not have
learned of 'Yin Yang' theory, upon which Taoist philosophy is based.  Zen
Buddhist scholars themselves acknowledge many instances in which Buddhist ideas
are concommitant with those of Taoist philosophy, but there will probably
always be an element of disagreement regarding which school of thought borrowed
most from the other.

All this is not to deny the Buddhist element in any form of Zen, but only to
illustrate that Zen is not wholly Buddhist, nor wholly Taoist.  For many Zen
practitioners there is indeed no dichotomy, nor any need for distinction.  But
it is only fair to all concerned to point out that to many non-Zen Buddhists
even Zen Buddhism is a heresy and to state that many Buddhists belonging to
non Zen sects, time and energy spent in Zen practice is considered to be of
little or no significance.  For their own part, many Zen practitioners consider
their orthodox Buddhist bretheren to be 'brothers in spirit', but are
disapproving towards the hierarchical rigor with which their more orthodox
brothers consider the Buddhist deities, and with which the orthodox Buddhist
institutions are organized.

I am fully aware that I have not described what Zen is, but have hopefully
illustrated that whatever it is, it is not orthodox, not essentially a religion,
and not specifically Indian.  It is possibly necessary to provide one more
negation, and this is that contrary to much public opinion in the Europe and
the USA, Zen is most certainly not Japanese in origin.

...................................End of file..................................


