VOODOO CASTLE
-------------

Ah, VooDoo Castle! Nothing like a little spooky stuff now and then! This time
around, you're trying to remove a nasty curse from Count Christo (who is a
good Count, unlike Count Dracula).

The game starts with you standing in the chapel, next to the Count's wearing a
sapphire ring. Take the ring, then go West to the ballroom. Enter the
fireplace and get the idol. Leave the fireplace by going South, then clean off
the idol, which is your source of light.

Now go East to the chapel, then South, West, South, and East into the armory.
Plenty of rusting old junk here! However, some of it is still useful, so pick
up the shield and the sword. From there, return to the stairwell, then go East
into the Kettle Room and then North to the room with the animal heads.

Pause (paws?) here for a moment, and move the heads (that's what you need the
sword for). This will reveal a safe. You don't have the combination yet, but
you will soon enough. For now, just drop the sword and the head, then continue
onward by going Eastward until you come to the lab.

Ignore the Ju-Ju bag for now and get the chemicals. Don't worry if anything
explodes, the shield will protect you. Once you have the chemicals, go West
and drop the shield. Make your way back to the torture chamber, moving the
kettle (when you come to it) along the way. When you get to the torture
chamber, mix and then drink the chemicals.

ZAP! You are now small enough to fit through the tiny doorway. Go through the
door, and pick up the saw. Look at the graves, and get the four-leaf clover.
Return East, then go back to the chapel. From there, go East to the huge stone
door with the sapphire set in it.

Sapphire? Hmm, does that remind you of anything? Yep, sure does! Wave the
ring, and the door disappears to be replaced by a tunnel with a slippery chute
heading down. Drop the ring, then slide down the chute into room below. Pick
up the plaque, then enter the hole in the wall.

You now emerge into the Medium's room. She runs out when you enter, but she
will return if you "Summon Medium", and will make helpful, if cryptic,
remarks. Now look at the crystal ball, and you will be magically returned to
the tunnel. Get the knife, and go back to the chapel. Drop the knife there,
then go on to the stairwell.

Once at the stairwell, pick up the glass, then go East to the kettle room.
Since you moved the kettle before, you will notice there is now a dark hole in
the floor. Drop the idol, then enter the hole. Read the plaque, which has the
combination of the safe written on it (the writing is tiny, so you needed the
glass to see it. The plaque itself glows in the dark.).

Once you know the combination, drop the plaque and the glass. Now get the
rabbit's foot. Even though you can't see it, it is there, and you can pick it
up. Climb out of the hole and get the idol again, then head along North to the
room with the safe.

Enter the combination by saying Turn (first number) and then Turn (second
number). Open the safe and get the antique hammer that's inside. Now you're
ready to tackle the fireplace again, so return to the ballroom fireplace. On
the way, stop off at the chapel, and put the rabbit's foot on Count Christo.

Saw through the grating, to reveal a button. Push the button, and a giant fan
sucks you further up the chimney, to where a chimney sweep is stuck. Give him
a good push, and he's free! In return for helping him, he gives you a piece of
paper with a magic word written on it. Remember that word, because it's
important.

Climb back down to the fireplace, and then once again, go to the stairwell.
This time, go upstairs to the parlor, where the Ju-Ju statue is. Say the magic
word from the paper, then go back down and head for the laboratory. Remember
to pick up the shield before you go in!

In the lab, get the Ju-Ju bag, and make tracks for the tunnel with the chute.
You can drop the shield along the way, since you won't be needing it any
longer. Slide down the chute, then wave the bag. Voila! The little crack in
the wall is now large enough for you to pass through.

Go crack, and get the torn page. Now, open the bag, and get the book. Read
both the book and the page, and make careful note of the ritual needed for
freeing Count Cristo from the curse. Drop the book and the page, and get the
stick. Go South back to the chute room, then enter the hole. Look once again
into the crystal ball.

So, here you are in the tunnel once more. Hang in there, you're almost done!
Go West, then North to the room with the window. Go window, and get the little
VooDoo doll on the ledge. Go back South into the room, then return to the
chapel. You now have everything you need to revoke the curse.

Following the instructions from the magic book, complete the ritual, freeing
the Count. TA-DA! You have successfully finished the adventure! Now that
you're finished, how about a little vacation? In fact, how about taking a
Strange Odyssey...
