The truth of Mormonism stands or falls on two things.  The first is the
authority of the Book of Mormon.  Ted Lapoint has raised a question or
two concerning the verity of the BOM, questions that must be answered. 
Unless the BOM can show the same truth in REALITY as the Bible can show,
serious doubts about it's authority in the life of >anyone< remain. 

The second basis for the truth claims of Mormonism is the authority of
Joseph Smith as a prophet of God.  Some incredible claims are made by
the Mormon church for their founder, Joseph Smith... "Joseph Smith, the
Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the
salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in
it." (Doctrine and Covenants 135:3).  Bruce McConkie in MORMON DOCTRINE
says "So great was his assigned mission, with reference to the
'restitution of all things' (Acts 3:21), that holy prophets spoke of
him, by name, thousands of years before his mortal birth. (2 Ne. 3.) And
as to the mighty work to be started by him-there are as many prophecies
foretelling it as there are about any other single subject, not even
excepting the host of prophetic utterances about our Lord and his
redemptive sacrifice." A careful reading of Acts 3, by the way, will
show that it is not Joseph Smith but Jesus Christ that is the subject of
that passage, and it is not the so-called 'restored' gospel that is in
view but rather the millenial reign of Jesus Christ.  But the
interpretation of Acts 3 is not my main concern here, but rather to see
if Joseph Smith was indeed the great prophet he claimed himself to be,
and that the Mormon church of today esteems him as.
 
The Bible gives the tests for a true prophet of God in two places, 
Deuteronomy 13:1-5 and Deuteronomy 18:20-22.  When the prophet speaks in
the name of the Lord, it WILL come to pass.  If the thing prophecied
does not, then that prophet is a FALSE prophet, he is NOT from God. 
I'll leave it to you to determine what the Bible says should be done
about that, but following a false prophet is not an option!
 
Let's look at Joseph Smith as a prophet.  Consider the following, taken
from Doctrine and Covenants 84

	 D&C 84:0 Revelation given through Joseph Smith the Prophet,
at Kirtland, Ohio, September 22 and 23, 1832. During the month of
September, Elders had begun to return from their missions in the
eastern States, and to make reports of their labors. It was while
they were together in this season of joy that the following
communication was received. The Prophet designates it a Revelation on
Priesthood. See History of the Church, vol. 1, p. 286. --A Temple to
be built in the land of Zion during this generation-The line of the
Holy Priesthood from Moses back to Adam--Relation between the Holy
Priesthood and the Lesser Priesthood--Bearers of these two Priesthoods
called the sons of Moses and of Aaron respectively--Blessings and
privileges of those who attain to these Priesthoods--The bondage of
sin--The new and everlasting covenant--Gifts of the spirit
specified--The Lord calls his servants, friends--Missionary service
imperative--Plagues impending because of wickedness.

	 D&C 84:1 A revelation of Jesus Christ unto his servant Joseph
Smith, Jun., and six elders, as they united their hearts and lifted
their voices on high.

	 D&C 84:2 Yea, the word of the Lord concerning his church,
established in the last days for the restoration of his people, as he
has spoken by the mouth of his prophets, and for the gathering of his
saints to stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New
Jerusalem.

	 D&C 84:3 Which city shall be built, beginning at the temple
lot, which is appointed by the finger of the Lord, in the western
boundaries of the State of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of
Joseph Smith, Jun., and others with whom the Lord was well ple ased.

	 D&C 84:4 Verily this is the word of the Lord, that the city
New Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints, beginning
at this place, even the place of the temple, which temple shall be
reared in this generation.

	 D&C 84:5 For verily this generation shall not all pass away
until an house shall be built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest
upon it, which cloud shall be even the glory of the Lord, which shall
fill the house.

The prophecy here, made in 1832 in the name of the Lord (D&C 84:2), is
that a temple would be built in Independence, Missouri before that
generation passed away, and it would be dedicated by the hand of Joseph
Smith.  Simply stated, and simply verified.  There was NO temple
constructed and dedicated by Joseph Smith in Independence.  The hand of
the Lord was NOT on Joseph Smith when he made this prophecy in His name,
because this prophecy DID NOT COME TO PASS!  
 
As shown in another posting, the Book of Mormon has no authority because
the record it contains is a fiction.  And as shown in this posting,
Joseph Smith has no authority as a prophet, because his prophecies did
not come to pass.  Mormonism therefore fails on the very points it
claims for its foundation.  It is a false religion.
 
The gift of eternal life was purchased for us by the real death on the
cross nearly 2000 years ago, in the real city of Jerusalem, by the real
person of Jesus Christ.  This was foretold in holy scripture and did
actually come to pass.  He arose from the dead on the third day as He
promised, the proof of what He proclaimed, and the proof to us that He
is Who He says He is, the Living God who alone can forgive our sins and
make us new creations.  This is His gift of grace to us, received by
faith in Him and His sacrifice for us, and marked by our turning from
sin in repentance and obedience to His will.  This is a personal
relationship with the God of all creation, not blind obedience to some
church or man or religion.  I do not invite you to pray ABOUT the truth
of this or any other word written by men... I invite you to pray TO the
True God, acknowledging your sins and ask Him for forgiveness and the
gift of Life in the Name of His Son Jesus Christ.  You will not be
saved by any other than Jesus, and it is my prayer that you will meet
Him today!

God bless you!
  Bill
 

 
 
