
   UNMASKING THE MYTHS OF MORMONISM

   Ever since the introduction of The God Makers film in January 1983,  
several first time viewer reactions have become quite common.  Most 
people have been shocked by the hidden Mormon doctrines laid bare 
by this film. And why not??  After all, it would be more than naive to 
expect the multi-million dollar public relations mill of the 
Latter-day Saint (LDS) church  to really "tell it like it is." 
Describing them as the "meat of the gospel, " such teachings as the 
nature of the Gods, secrets of the temple ceremony, and adding Joseph 
Smith as an additional mediator are kept hidden from the uninitiated.

   The primary purpose of this "Data Sheet" is an examination of 
strange and/or obscured doctrines of Mormonism.  Therefore it has been 
pretty well restricted to the discussion of theological issues.  If for 
no other reason than lack of space, the listing of complicated 
statistical data concerning the family life practices in the Mormon 
dominated state of Utah (i.e.  divorces, suicides, etc.) and/or 
"personal" experiences in Mormonism owned or controlled financial 
empires has long been based upon educated guesses  made by non-Mormon 
financial analysts, and hard for anyone to "prove."

   Our printed format is quite simple and easy to use.  The doctrinal 
allegations are listed in much the same order as they were made in the 
film itself.  With no further commentary, right underneath each 
heading is one or more supporting quotations.  In most instances, there 
are many more quotations that could be cited but are not, because of 
lack of space.  Keep in mind that virtually all these listed quotations 
are from LDS "General Authorities" and/or reliable Mormon books!

   TEMPLE MARRIAGE IS ESSENTIAL
   ----------------------------

   Only through Celestial marriage can one find the strait way, the 
narrow path. Eternal life cannot be had in any other way.

   (Spencer W.  Kimball, Church News, 11/12/1977)

    Our exaltation depends on marriage...we can be exalted as God is 
now  and receive a fullness of joy...we can at some future time, 
increase our  family by having spirit children...We must be obedient to 
every covenant that we make in the temple of the Lord.  He has said 
that if we are true and faithful we shall pass by the angels to our 
exaltation.  We will become gods.

   (Gospel Principals, Page 231, 2344 & 236)

   GOD THE FATHER WAS ONCE A MAN
   -----------------------------

    God was once as we are now, and is an exalted Man...I am going to 
tell you how God came to be God.  We have imagined and supposed that 
God was God from all eternity.  I will refute that idea, and take away 
and do away the  veil, so that you may see...It is the first principle 
of the Gospel to know for a certainty the character of God...and that 
he was once a man like us.

   (Joseph Smith, Journal of Discourses, Volume 6, Page 3)

   THE PLANET KOLOB
   ----------------

    Kolob means "the first creation." It is the name of the planet  
"nearest to the celestial, or the residence of God."

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 428)

   MORMON JESUS IS A DIFFERENT JESUS
   ---------------------------------

    ...since the Messiah came to earth to work out his own salvation, 
as well as make salvation available to all men - we are justified in  
concluding that he himself needed baptism...The Lord Jesus, being a 
man, required baptism, even as other men. There is no other way.

   (Bruce McConkie, The Promised Messiah, Pages 482, 485)

   The sacrament is an ordinance to remind us of Christ.  The bread 
represents the body of Christ that he gave so all men could be 
resurrected. The water represents the blood Christ shed in 
Gethsemane where he atoned for the sins of all men.

   (Discussion "I", The Uniform System for Teaching Families, Page 56)

   It is true that many of the Christian churches worship a different 
Jesus than is worshiped by the Mormons or The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints.

   (Bernard P.  Brockbank, The Ensign, May 1977, Page 26)

   COUNCIL IN HEAVEN
   -----------------

   The contention in heaven was--Jesus said there would be certain 
souls that would not be saved; and the Devil said he could save them 
all, and laid his plans before the grand council, who gave their vote 
in favor of Jesus Christ.  So the Devil rose up in rebellion against 
God, and was cast down, with all who put up their heads for him.

   (Joseph Smith, Journal of Discourses, Volume 6, Page 8)

   NEGRO CURSED IN PRE-EXISTENCE
   -----------------------------

   Not only was Cain called upon to suffer, but because of his 
wickedness, he became the father of an inferior race.  A curse was 
placed upon him and that curse has been continued through his lineage 
and must do so while time endures.  Millions of souls have come into 
this world cursed with a black skin and have been denied the privilege 
of Priesthood and the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way To Perfection, Page 102)

   You see some classes of the human family that are black, uncouth, 
uncomely, disagreeable and low in their habits, wild, and seemingly 
deprived of nearly all the blessings of the intelligence that is 
generally bestowed upon mankind.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 7, Page 290)

   Shall I tell you the law of God in regard to the African race?  If 
the white man who belongs to the chosen seed mixes his blood with the 
seed of Cain, the penalty, under the law of God, is death on the spot.  
This will always be so.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 10, Page 110)

   ADAM IS GOD THE FATHER
   ----------------------

   How much unbelief exists in the minds of the Latter-day Saints in 
regard to one particular doctrine which I revealed to them, and which 
God  revealed to me - namely that Adam is our father and God...Then he 
(Adam) said, "I want my children who are in the spirit world to come 
and live here.  I once dwelt upon an earth something like this, in a 
mortal state, I was faithful, I received my crown and exaltation.  I 
have the privilege of extending my work, and to its increase there will 
be no end.  I want my children that were born to ME in the spirit world 
to come here and take  tabernacles of flesh."

   (Brigham Young, Deseret News, 6/16/1873)

   GOD HAD PHYSICAL RELATIONS WITH MARY
   ------------------------------------

    Even the Father himself honored that law (i.e., "to multiply and 
replenish the earth") by coming down to Mary, without a natural body, 
and begetting a son; and if Jesus begat children, he only "did that 
which he  had seen his Father do."

   (Orson Hyde, Journal of Discourses, Volume 2, Page 210)

   Only Begotten...Only Begotten Son...the Only Begotten of the 
Father... These name-titles all signify that our Lord is the only son 
of the Father in the flesh.  Each of these words is to be understood 
literally. Only means only; Begotten means begotten; and Son means son. 
Christ was begotten by an Immortal Father in the SAME way that mortal 
men are begotten by mortal fathers.

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 546-547)

   God the Father is a perfected, glorified holy Man, and immortal 
Personage.  And Christ was born into the world as the literal son of 
this Holy Being; he was born in the same personal, real and literal 
sense that any mortal son is born to a mortal father.  There is NOTHING 
figurative about his paternity; he was begotten, conceived and born in 
the normal and natural course of events.

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 742)

   JESUS WAS MARRIED
   -----------------

    Jesus was the bridegroom at the marriage of Cana of Galilee...we 
say it was Jesus Christ who was married, to be brought into relation 
whereby he could see his seed before he was crucified.

   (Orson Hyde, Journal of Discourses, Volume 2, Page 82)

   I discover that some of the Eastern papers represent me as a great 
blasphemer, because I said in my lecture on Marriage, at our last 
Conference, that Jesus was married at Cana of Galilee, that Mary, 
Martha and others were his wives, and that he begat children.

   (Orson Hyde, Journal of Discourses, Volume 2, Page 210)

   JOSEPH SMITH STANDS IN JUDGEMENT
   --------------------------------

   NO SALVATION WITHOUT ACCEPTING JOSEPH SMITH.  If Joseph Smith was  
verily a prophet...then this knowledge is of the most vital importance 
to the entire world.  No man can reject that testimony without 
incurring the most dreadful consequences, for he cannot enter 
the kingdom of God.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Volume 1, Page 
189-190)

   No man or woman in this dispensation will ever enter into the 
celestial kingdom of God without the consent of Joseph Smith.  From the 
day that the Priesthood was taken from the earth to the winding up 
scene of all things,  every man and woman MUST have the certificate of 
Joseph Smith, junior, as a passport to their entrance into the mansion 
where God and Christ are.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 7, Page 289)

   If we ask who will stand at the head of the resurrection in this 
last dispensation, the answer is -- Joseph Smith, Junior, the Prophet 
of God. He is the man who will be resurrected and receive the keys of 
the resurrection, and he will seal this authority upon others, and they 
will hunt up their friends and resurrect them.

   (Brigham Young, Discourses of Brigham Young, Page 116)

   So hear it all ye ends of the earth; if you ever enter into the 
kingdom of God, it is because Joseph Smith let you go there.  This will 
apply to Jews and Gentiles, to the bond and free; to friends and foes; 
no man or woman in this generation will get a resurrection and be 
crowned without Joseph saying so.

   (Brigham Young, Conference discourse on October 8, 1854)

   LDS THANK GOD FOR JOSEPH SMITH
   ------------------------------ 

   The Saints, the Saints, his only pride! For them he lived, for them 
he died; He lived, for them he died; Their joys were his, their sorrows 
too. He loved the Saints; he loved Nauvoo.

   Unchained in death, with a Savior's love, He pleads their cause in 
the court's above. He pleads their cause in the court's above. The 
Seer, the Seer! Joseph the Seer! O how I love his memory dear!

   The just and wise, the pure and free. A father he was and is to me. 
Let fiends now rage, in their dark hour - No matter, no matter, he is 
beyond their power. No matter, no matter, he is beyond their power.

   (John Taylor, LDS Hymn #296, The Seer, Joseph, The Seer, Verse 3)

   Praise to his memory, he died as a martyr; Honored and blest be his 
ever great name! Long shall his blood, which was shed by assassins. 
Plead unto heaven while the earth lauds his fame.

   Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven! Traitors and tyrants now 
fight him in vain. Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his brethren; 
Death cannot conquer the hero again. (William W.  Phelps, LDS Hymn 
#147, Praise To The Man Who Communed With Jehovah, Verse 2)

   Our sacred hymns are both prayers and praises to the Lord.  Let us 
ever cherish them as an essential part of our lives.  The Lord Himself 
regards  the hymns of the saints as prayers to heaven...As we remember 
the part the Prophet Joseph Smith took in the work of the Restoration, 
should we not  sing with enthusiasm "Praise to the Man who Communed 
With Jehovah"...Using these faith-promoting hymns will make better 
Latter-day Saints of us  all...(Editorial, Church News, 8/28/1983)

   JOSEPH SMITH'S BOASTS
   ---------------------

   I have more to boast of than ever any man had.  I am the only man 
that has ever been able to keep a whole church together since the days 
of Adam. A large majority of the whole have stood by me.  Neither Paul, 
John, Peter nor Jesus ever did it.  I boast that no man ever did a work 
such as I. The followers of Jesus ran away from Him; but the Latter-day 
Saints never ran away from me yet.

   (Joseph Smith, History of the Church, Volume 6, Page 408-409)

   God made Aaron to be the mouthpiece for the children of Israel, and 
he will make me to be GOD to you in his stead, and Elders to be mouth 
for me; and if you don't like it, you must lump it!

   (Joseph Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Page 363)

   JOSEPH SMITH DESCENDED FROM JESUS CHRIST
   ----------------------------------------

    ...learn that those men who are chosen to direct and counsel you 
are near KINDRED to God and to Christ, for the keys, power, and 
authority of the kingdom are of that lineage.

   (Heber C.  Kimball, Journal of Discourses, Volume 4, Page 248)

   Would to God, brethren, I could tell you who I am!  Would to God I 
could tell you what I know!  But you would call it blasphemy, and there 
are men upon this stand who would want to take my life.

   (Joseph Smith, quoted in Life of Heber C.  Kimball, Page 322)

   MORMONS MUST BE PERFECT
   -----------------------

   The forsaking of sin must be a permanent one.  True repentance does 
NOT permit making the same mistake again.

   (Spencer W.  Kimball, Repentance Brings Forgiveness, Page 7)

   We also have to forsake the sin and never repeat it, not even in our 
minds...In order to remain forgiven, we must NEVER commit the sin 
again. (Mormon Missionary Discussion "F, " Uniform System for 
Teaching Families, Page 35, 36)

   In other words, if there is one divine law that he does not keep he 
is barred from participation in the (Celestial) kingdom, and 
figuratively guilty of all, since he is denied all.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, Answers to Gospel Questions, Volume 3, Page 
26)

   ABSOLUTE TRUST IN ANYTHING "MORMON"
   ----------------------------------

   SAINTS SAFE IN FOLLOWING CHURCH AUTHORITIES.  No man ever went 
astray by following the counsel of the authorities of the Church.  No 
man who ever followed the teachings or took advise or counsel from the 
one who stands as the representative of the Lord ever went astray.

   (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Volume 1, Page 243)

   When our leaders speak, the thinking has been done.  When they 
propose a plan--it is God's plan.  When they point the way, there is no 
other which is safe. When they give direction, it should mark the end 
of controversy. God works in no other way.

   (Ward Teacher's Message, Deseret News, 5/26/1945)

   TOTAL APOSTASY OF CHRISTIANITY
   ------------------------------

   19.  I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all 
wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all their creeds 
were and abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt...

   (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith--History 1:19, Page 49)

   The gates of Hell have prevailed and will continue to prevail over 
the Catholic Mother of Harlots, and over all here Protestant  
Daughters;...the apostate Catholic church, with all her popes and 
bishops, together with all her harlot daughters shall be hurled 
down to Hell...

   (Orson Pratt, Pamphlets by Orson Pratt, Page 112)

   This Church is the only true and living church upon the face of the  
whole earth...there is no salvation outside the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints.

   (Bruce McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, Page 670)

   Elder Bruce R.  McConkie, and apostle of The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints, called the doctrine of salvation by grace without 
works, "the second greatest heresy" of Christianity during Brigham 
Young University's opening devotional Tuesday.  The first great heresy, 
he said, pertains to the nature of God, the doctrine of the Trinity.

   (The Herald Newspaper, Provo, Utah, 1/12/1984)

   TEMPLE CEREMONY MOCKS CHRISTIAN PASTORS
   --------------------------------------- 

   Adam: Oh God, hear the words of my mouth! 
   Lucifer: I hear you.  What is it you want? 
   Adam: Who are you? 
   Lucifer: I am the God of this world. 
   Adam: You, the God of this world? 
   Lucifer: Yes!  What do you want? 
   Adam: I am looking for messengers. 
   Lucifer: Oh, you want someone to preach to you? You want religion 
            do you?  I will have preachers here presently.

   (A "preacher" dressed in black, now enters the scene)

   Lucifer: Good Morning Sir. 
   Preacher: Good morning.  A fine congregation! 
   Lucifer: Yes, they are very good people.  They are concerned about
            religion.  Are you a preacher? 
   Preacher: I am. Lucifer: Have you been to college and received 
             training for the ministry? 
   Preacher: Certainly!  A man cannot preach unless he has been trained 
             for the ministry! 
   Lucifer: Do you preach the orthodox religion? 
   Preacher: Yes, that is what I preach. 
   Lucifer: If you will preach your orthodox religion to these people 
            and convert them, I will pay you well! 
   Preacher: I will do my best. 
   Lucifer: Here is a man who desires religion.  He is very much 
            exercised, and seems to be sincere.

   (The action returns to "Adam")

   Preacher: I understand you are inquiring after religion. 
   Adam: I was calling upon Father. 
   Preacher: I am glad to know that you were calling upon Father.  
             Do you believe in a God who is without body, parts and 
             passions, who sits on the top of topless throne, whose 
             center is everywhere and whose circumference nowhere; 
             who fills the universe, and yet is so small that he can 
             dwell in your heart.  Who is surrounded by myriads of 
             beings who have been saved by Grace, not for any act
             of theirs, but by His good pleasure?  Do you believe this 
             great Being? 
   Adam: I do not?  I cannot comprehend such a Being. 
   Preacher: That is the beauty of it!!

   (The above account was transcribed from the February, 1984 audio 
recordings made by a Mormon in the Provo LDS temple which was later 
published under the title, Unfruitful Works of Darkness, Tape 1)

   SUN AND MOON INHABITED
   ----------------------

   Who can tell us of the inhabitants of this little planet that shines 
of  an evening, called the moon?  ...when you inquire about the 
inhabitants of that sphere you find that the most learned are as 
ignorant in regard to them as the most ignorant of their fellows.  So 
it is with regard to the inhabitants of the sun.  Do you think it is 
inhabited?  I rather think it is.  Do you think there is any life 
there?  No question of it; it was not made in vain.

   (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Volume 13, Page 271)

   NO ARCHAEOLOGICAL EVIDENCE
   --------------------------

   After nearly 150 years since the Nephite record was first published 
by Joseph Smith, we Mormons have been unable confidently to pin down 
the location of a single city, identify even one route they traversed, 
or sketch an accurate picture of any segment of the life they lived in 
their American promised land.  In many respects, the Book of Mormon 
remains a sealed book to us because we have been incapable of placing 
it in its specific setting.

   (Prof.  John L. Sorenson, An Ancient American Setting for the Book 
of Mormon, Page 0/3)

   The bare facts of the matter are that nothing, absolutely nothing 
has ever shown up in any New World excavation which would suggest to a 
dispassionate observer that the Book of Mormon, as claimed by Joseph 
Smith, is a historical document relating to the history of early 
migrants to our hemisphere.

   (Michael Coe, Dialogue: A Journal Of Mormon Thought, Summer 1973, 
Page 46)

   - Bob Witte

   EX-MORMONS / CHRISTIAN
   ALLIANCE
   P.O.  BOX 530
   ORANGEVALE, CA 95662

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

