
            Divine Truths in the Book of Mormon

   Anyone visited by a Mormon Missionary has heard the Elder's
testimony concerning the Book of Mormon:  That he knows this book is
the Word of God and that the founder of the Mormon Church, Joseph
Smith, Jr., translated it by the gift and power of God.  Further, the
propsect is encouraged sincerely to study the Book of Mormon and "The
divine truths it contains."

   The Book of Mormon indeed does contain a number of "divine truths",
first set forth in the Bible, the most important of which are:

1. GOD IS SPIRIT
  Alma 18:28 (p. 242) - "Believest, thou that this Great Spirit, who
  is God, created all things".

2. TRINITARIAN VIEW OF GOD
  3 Nephi 11:27 (p. 422) - "Verily I say unto you, that the Father and
  the Son and the Holy Ghost are one."  In addition, three close
  associates of Joseph Smith who gave testimony of the authenticity
  of the Book of Mormon, close with words: "And the honor be to the
  Father, and to the Son and to the Holy Ghost, WHICH IS ONE GOD.
  Amen." (emphasis added)  This endorsement is found in the front of
  every Book of Mormon and further documents the Book of Mormon's
  acknowledgement of the triune nature of God.

3. GOD IS UNCHANGEABLE
  Moroni 8:18 (p. 517) - "For I know that God is not a partial God,
  neither a changeable being; but he is unchangable from all eternity
  to all eternity."

4. NO SALVATION AFTER DEATH
  Mosiah 3:25 (p. 141) - "And if they be evil they are consigned to an
  awful view of their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause them
  to shrink from the presence of the Lord into a state of misery and
  endless torment, from whence they can no more return; therefore they
  have drunk damnation to their own souls."

5. ONLY TWO DESTINATIONS AFTER DEATH
  Mosiah 16:11 (p. 166) - "If they be good, to the resurrection of
  endless life and happiness; and if they be evil, to the resurrection
  of endless damnation."

6. SALVATION BY CHRIST"S WORK - NOT MAN'S
  Helaman 5:9 (p. 369) - "...remember that there is no other way nor
  means whereby mn can be saved, only through the atoning blood of
  Jesus Christ, who shall come, yea, remember that he cometh to
  redeem the world."

   The Book of Mormon also emphasizes the need for spiritual rebirth.
For example Alma 5:14 states "And now behold, I ask of you, my
brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God?  Have ye
recieved his image in your countenances?  Have ye experienced this
mighty change in your hearts?"

   Much of the major theology set forth in the Book of Mormon is indeed
in harmony with orthodox Christianity.  However, many who are visited
by the LDS Missionaries are unaware that the present theology of the
Mormon Church is very different from their own Book of Mormon.
Further, not only are today's major doctrines different, they are in
total opposition with this work of Joseph Smith, Jr., for which he
claimed divine inspiration.

   Mormon theology is not contained in, but rather contradicted by the
Book of Mormon.  The members of the Mormon Church now turn to newer
publications and revelations for their beliefs.  A brief examination
of some of these will document the contradictions.

1. Mormonism today teaches "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as
tangible as man's" (Doctrine & Covenants 130:22).

2. Joseph Smith, later in his life, flatly denied the Trinity: "Many
men say there is one God, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost are
one God!  I saw that is a strange God anyhow - three in one, and one
in three!"  He further concludes that the Father, Son and the Holy
Ghost are not one God, but rather three Gods (History of the Church
6:474, 476).

3. The LDS Church no longer adheres to the unchangeable nature of God,
but rather states:  "God himself was once as we are now and is an
exalted man...We have imagined and supposed that God was God from all
eternity.  I will refute that idea and take away the veil, so that you
may see".  (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345).

4. Bruce R. McConkie announces on page 73 of his work, 'Mormon
Doctrine':  "The Lord has ordained baptism for the dead as the means
whereby all his worthy children of all ages can become heirs of
salvation in his kingdom."

5. Mormonism today informs its members that all mankind will occupy
one of three heavenly kingdoms.  The highest is the Celestial Kingdom
(which itself contains various levels).  This kingdom is reserved for
all faithful Mormons and could lead to Godhood for the male members
there.  The middle Kingdom, the Terrestial Kingdom, is for those who
did not accept the gosple according to Mormonism, but who lived an
honorable life.  The lowest or Telestial Kingdom sill contain murders,
adulters, liars and thieves.  (Doctrine & Covenants section 76).  Hell
in Mormonism is usually thought to be only a temporary state of
suffering, which can be terminated through self-atonement.  In
summary, all will be resurrected and recieve some degree of glory,
according to Mormonism.

6. Mormons believe not in the infinite atonement of Christ, but rather
that "redemption from personal sins can only be obtained through
obedience to the requirements of the Gospel, AND A LIFE OF GOOD
WORKS."  (emphasis added) (Talmage, Articles of Faith pgs. 478-479)

   These changes and contradictions contained within these easily
available LDS Scriptures leave no doubt as to the human, man made
origin of Mormonism.

   While Mormons regard the Bible as the Word of God however, the Bible
is actually placed lower and superseded by their other Scriptures,
which in addition to the Book of Mormon include the Doctrine &
Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price.  This devaluation of the Bible
is found within the LDS Articles of Faith, in the Pearl of Great
Price, where it is stated that Mormons "believe the Bible in so far as
it is correctly translated."

   God's word, the Bible, has definitely stood the test of time, where
as in its short existance the Book of Mormon has not.  The Bible, has
been used by and confirmed by archeology, - the Book of Mormon has
not.  The Bible, has through recent ancient manuscript discoveries,
been demonstrated to have been transmitted and translated accurately,
where the Book of Mormon contains nearly 4000 textual changes from the
first edition in 1830 to the present editions used today, and has
recieved further changes in the new 1981 "Triple Combination" edition.

   The presence of "Divine Truths" within the Book of Mormon is merely
a result of Joseph Smith, Jr. incorporating much of the Bible into his
work.  (see 'The use of the Bible in the Book of Mormon by H. Michael
Marquardt).  Thus, the Book of Mormon must be regarded as fiction, not
as inspired Scripture.

   Changes within Mormonism and the Book of Mormon make it clear that
Mormonism is not from God.  God's word does not change.  Jesus Christ
is the same yesterday, today and forever (Hebrews 13:8) and His Word
shall never pass away (Psalm 119:89; Matthew 24:35).  The Jesus Christ
who shed his blood on Calvary's cross to save you is not the Jesus of
present-day Mormonism.  Jesus invites all people to experience a
spiritual rebirth and to recieve the free gift of eternal life by
trusting in him alone for salvation.

   Write to us and let us share with you more information concerning
our Risen Saviour Jesus Christ and how you can recieve Him.

                   PERSONAL FREEDOM OUTREACH
Route 3 Weir Lake Rd., Kunkletown, PA. 18058  (215) 381-3661
P.O. Box 26062, Saint Louis, MO.  63136  (314) 388-2648
P.O. Box 30073, Phoenix, AZ.  85046  (602)867-0538
P.O. Box 15081, Santa Ana, CA.  92705  (714) 832-9385

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon

