
               WAS JOSEPH SMITH A PROPHET OF GOD?

   If Joseph Smith was a true prophet then everyone should follow
his teachings. If, however, Joseph was a false prophet, then he should
be exposed as such.

   There are at least twenty three references in the Bible
dealing with false prophets. Some of these references are specific
tests to determine if the prophet is a true prophet of God. We will
apply just two of these tests to Joseph Smith.

   Deuteronomy 13:1-5 is the first scripture in the Bible dealing
with false prophets. The issue in these verses is whether the prophet
leads the people after another god.

   What does it mean if Joseph Smith is a false prophet? What will
happen to the people who follow a false prophet's teachings? Isaiah
9:16 says the following: "For the leaders of this people cause them to
err; and they that are led of them are destroyed." Matthew 7:15-20
says to beware of false prophets. It goes on to say that the fate of a
false prophet is that he will be "...hewn down, and cast into the
fire." The Holy Bible declares that the fate of those who follow a
false prophet is that they will go right into the Lake of Fire with
the false prophet. Please check it out for yourself.

   The god of Mormonism was born as a baby on another world. He grew
up, got baptized by one holding the proper authority, got married in
the temple for time and all eternity (probably to more than one wife),
had many children, was obedient to all of the laws and ordinances of
the gospel and eventually died. Because of his obedience and
faithfulness and by the Law of Eternal Progression he was Exalted and
became god.

   If you know anything about Mormon doctrine you know that this is
the god of Mormonism. His name is Eloheim (or Ahman) and he lives on a
planet (or star) nearest the planet Kolob. He is a glorified,
resurrected, exalted man having a tangible body of flesh and bones.
(see Mormon Doctrine by Bruce R.McConkie, page 250)

    Certain basic questions should be asked about each prophecy or
revelation. First, it must be determined that the prophetic utterance
really came from Joseph Smith. Secondly it must be determined that the
prophecy purportedly came from God. Third, you have to determine if
the prophecy came to pass exactly as outlined. Lastly, you have to
determine if the prophecy can yet come to pass.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 1 ... September 21, 1823. PEARL OF GREAT PRICE.
Joseph Smith 2:40-47.

   Joseph Smith claimed that the angel Moroni told him that the
prophecies in Isaiah, chapter 11 were about to be fulfilled and that
the prophecies in Joel, Chapter 2:28-32 were soon to be fulfilled.

    164 years have now gone by since this was received and the
prophecies that Joseph Smith referred to have not been fulfilled. We
know that these prophecies will be fulfilled in the future, but not in
Joseph Smith's (or Moroni's) timing.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 2 ... July 1828. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, Section
3, verse 3.

   "Remember, remember that it is not the work of God that is
frustrated, but the work of men;"

   This particular verse is going to come back time after time and
haunt Joseph Smith. This verse is accepted as scripture by Mormons
thus all we have to show is that if whatever is promised or prophesied
by Joseph Smith is frustrated, then it is the work of men.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 3 ... Winter 1829-1830. An ADDRESS TO ALL
BELIEVERS IN CHRIST, David Whitmer, pages 30-31.

   Joseph Smith sent Hiram Page and Oliver Cowdery to Toronto,
Canada to sell the copyright of the Book of Mormon in response to a
revelation that he claimed to have received from God.

   The mission and the revelation was a total failure as recorded by
David Whitmer. When Joseph Smith was asked why the revelation had
failed he answered that he did not know how it was. David Whitmer
records that Joseph Smith "...enquired of the Lord about it, and
behold the following revelation came through the stone: 'Some
revelations are of God: some revelation are of man: and some
revelations are of the devil.' So we see that the revelation to go to
Toronto and sell the copyright was not of God, but was of the devil or
the heart of man."

   Mormon Historian and Apostle B.H. Roberts records the following
regarding this Toronto revelation. "...May this Toronto incident and
the Prophet's explanations be accepted and faith still be maintained
in him as an inspired man, a Prophet of God? I answer unhesitatingly
in the affirmative. The revelation respecting the Toronto journey was
not of God, surely; else it would not have failed; but the Prophet,
overwrought in his deep anxiety for the progress of the work, saw
reflected in the 'Seer Stone' his own thought, or that suggested to
him by his brother Hyrum, rather than the thought of God...in this
instance of the Toronto journey, Joseph was evidently not directed by
the inspiration of the Lord." (A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
Vol.1,p. 165).

   Remember, Deuteronomy 18:22 records that all you need is one
false prophecy to have a false prophet.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 4 ... September, 1830. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 29:10-11.

   In these two verses Joseph Smith prophesied that the "..hour is
nigh..." for Christ to return.

   157 years have gone by since Joseph Smith stated that the hour
was nigh. Only by performing mental gymnastics can this prophecy be
accepted as one that can be fulfilled.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 5 ... March, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 49:9-10.

   (9) "Wherefore, I say unto you that I have sent unto mine
everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. (10) And
that which I have promised I have so fulfilled, and the nations of the
earth shall bow to it; and, if not of themselves, thy shall come down,
for that which is now exalted of itself shall be laid low of power."

   Mormon Apostle Bruce. McConkie on pages 529 and 530 of his book
MORMON DOCTRINE makes it quite clear that the "everlasting covenant"
is the gospel that has been given thru the Mormon Church. The gospel
according to Mormonism is composed of all of the laws and ordinances
and commandments that God has given to man.

   According to verse 10 above "....the nations of the earth shall
bow to it" (The Mormon Gospel). 150 years have now gone by since this
revelation was received and no nation has bowed down to the Mormon
gospel, or been laid low of power for not bowing down to it.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 6 ... July, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 57:1-3.

   Independence, Missouri is named as the center place of Zion.
Independence is appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the
saints. Independence is indicated to be the Land of promise.

   This is a very important revelation because it names the location
of the city of Zion.

   This revelation is false by virtue of the fact that Section 3,
verse 3 has declared that any work that is frustrated is not from God
but from men. There is no question that the gathering of the saints in
Zion (Independence) has been frustrated. They tried to gather in
Independence and were physically driven out.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 7 ... August 13, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 62:1, 6 & 9.

   Joseph Smith declares in this revelation that God told him that
"..the faithful among you should be preserved and rejoice together in
the land of Missouri, I, the Lord, promise the faithful and cannot
lie..." Verse 9 says "Behold, the kingdom is yours. And behold, and
lo, I am with the faithful always. Even so, Amen."

   The facts are these:
 (1) The faithful were not preserved.
 (2) The faithful did not rejoice together in the land of Missouri.
 (3) The kingdom was not theirs - they were driven out.

   All you have to do is read some of the history regarding the
Mormons between 1831 and 1847 and you will see that this revelation
and prophecy was, and is a total failure. If you can say that the
prophecy was frustrated then you indicate that it was not from God.
(Section 3, verse 3)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 8 ... September 11, 1831. SCRAP BOOK OF MORMON
LITERATURE, by Rich, Vol. 2, p. 259.

   "For behold, I say unto you that Zion shall flourish, and the
glory of the Lord shall be upon her, and she shall be an ensign unto
the people, and there shall come unto her out of every nation under
heaven."

   The above revelation (or prophecy) is reported by Rich to be a
revelation from God that was given to Joseph Smith. Being as it is
reported by a Mormon (Rich) we can assume that it is an undisputed
statement of Joseph Smith.

   If Zion (Independence, Missouri) has flourished, the glory of the
Lord is upon it, it is an ensign unto the people, and people from
every nation under heaven have come to Independence, it most certainly
is not because of anything that the Mormons have done. As far as
Mormons are concerned Independence has not flourished, the glory of
the Lord Is not upon it, it is not an ensign to the people and people
from every nation have not gone to Independence. The least that can be
said about this revelation (prophecy) is that it has been frustrated,
therefore, it cannot be from God. (Section 3, verse 3)

   Of course the Mormons could say that this prophecy will still
come to pass. Only by performing mental gymnastics can this prophecy
come to pass. Remember, all that has to be shown is that it was
frustrated, and it certainly was frustrated.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 9 ... November 1, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 1:35 & 37.

   (35) For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men
shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is
nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil
shall have power over his dominion.

   If God is no respecter of persons according to Joseph Smith then
why did he record the following in the PEARL OF GREAT PRICE, Moses
5:20 & 21? (20) And Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his
flock, and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel, and
to his offering; (21) But unto Cain, and to his offering, he had not
respect. Now Satan knew this, and it pleased him. And Cain was very
wroth, and his countenance fell.

   The book of Moses directly contradicts the DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS. Joseph Smith further contradicted himself when he had
recorded in the DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, Section 124:102 the following:
(102) Behold, I Say unto you, I have a mission in store for my servant
William and my servant Hyrum, and for them alone;...

   Why not Brigham or Parley or Orson? If this is not enough then
let us look at verse 37 in Section 1. (37) Search these commandments,
for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which
are in them shall all be fulfilled.

   This is stating that all of the prophecies and promises that are
in the DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS are going to be fulfilled. If ever
Joseph Smith uttered a false prophecy this is it. We have already
listed a number of prophecies and promises that have not been
fulfilled. An additional list of considerable number are described
below. It does not take a theologian to see the simple truth that
Joseph Smith has failed the test of a prophet according to Deuteronomy
18:22.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 10 ... November 3, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 133:17, 26-30.

   (17) For behold, the Lord God hath sent forth the angel crying
through the midst of heaven saying: Prepare ye the way of the Lord,
and make his paths straight, for the hour of his coming is nigh ----
(26) And they who are in the north countries shall come in remembrance
before the Lord; and their prophets shall hear his voice, and shall
smite the rocks, and the ice shall flow down at their presence. (27)
And a highway shall be cast up in the midst of the great deep. (28)
Their enemies shall become a prey unto them. (29) And in the barren
deserts there shall come forth pools of living water; and the parched
ground shall no longer be a thirsty land. (30) And they shall bring
forth their rich treasures unto the children of Ephraim, my servants.

   156 years have gone by and Christ has not returned. Another
prophecy that has been frustrated.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 11 ... December 1, 1831. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 71:6-10.

   (6) For unto him that receiveth it shall be given more
abundantly, even power. (7) Wherefore confound your enemies; call upon
them to meet you both in public and in private and inasmuch as ye are
faithful their shame shall be more manifest. (8) Wherefore let them
bring forth their strong reasons against the Lord. (9) Verily, thus
saith the Lord unto you--there is no weapon that is formed against you
shall prosper; (10) And if any man lift his voice against you he shall
be confounded in mine own due time.

   To begin with, the Mormons are disobeying the commandment given
in verse 7. We do not know of any person that is involved in the
ministry to the Mormons that has been put to shame by any Mormon.

   All you have to do is read a little church history (Mormon) to
see that the weapons used against the Mormons did prosper. They were
driven from one city to the next and finally to Salt Lake City.
Certainly the guns that were used to murder Joseph Smith prospered.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 12 ... September 22 and 23, 1982. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 84:2-5, 31, 114-115.

   (2) Yea, the work of the Lord concerning his church, established
in the last days for the restoration of his people, as he has spoken
by the mouth of his prophets, and for the gathering of his saints to
stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New Jerusalem. (3)
Which city shall be built, beginning at the the temple lot, which is
appointed by the finger of the Lord, in the western boundaries of the
State of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of Joseph Smith, Jr., and
others with whom the Lord was well pleased. (4) Verily this is the
word of the Lord, that the city New Jerusalem shall be built by the
gathering of the saints, beginning at this place, even the place of
the temple, which temple shall be reared in this generation. (5) For
verily this generation shall not all pass away until an house shall be
built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest upon it, which cloud shall
be even the glory of the Lord, which shall fill the house. (31)
Therefore, as I said concerning the sons of Moses --- for the sons of
Moses and also the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable offering
and sacrifice in the house of the Lord which house shall be built unto
the Lord in this generation, upon the consecrated spot as I have
appointed --. (114) Never-the-less, let the bishops go unto the city
of New York, also to the city of Albany, and also to the city of
Boston, and warn the people of those cities with the sound of the
gospel, with a loud voice, of the desolation and utter abolishment
which await them if they do reject these things. (115) For if they do
reject these things the hour of their judgement is nigh, and their
house shall be left unto them desolate.

   History records that Independence was built, but not by the
Mormons. History also records that Joseph Smith dedicated the temple
lot, however, it is interesting to note that the dedication ceremony
was held on August 3, 1831 more that one year previous to receiving
this revelation.

   Verse 4 has some real problems in it, it states that the city New
Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints. Whatever was
built by the Mormons was built prior to the winter of 1831-1832
because the Mormons were driven out of Independence at that time. The
last few words of verse 4 present the greatest problem. It states that
the temple would be reared (built) in the generation then living.
Verse 5 expands on this by stating that "...this generation shall not
all pass away until a house shall be built unto the Lord..." And
finally verse 31 repeats the fact that the temple would be built in
the generation then living.

    Since this was 155 years ago this revelation fails. Joseph
Fielding Smith (who became the 10th president of the Mormon church)
answered the generation question by stating that "it is reasonable to
believe that no soul living in 1832, is still living in mortality on
the earth." (ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS, vol.4,p.112)

   A further problem remains regarding the building of the temple.
The lot is no longer owned by the Mormons. It is now owned by the
church of Jesus Christ, Temple Lot, and they plan on building their
own temple. Another point of failure.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 13 ... December 25, 1832. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 87:1-8.

   (1) Verily, thus saith the Lord concerning the wars that will
shortly come to pass, beginning at the rebellion of South Carolina,
which will eventually terminate in the death and misery of many souls;
(2) And the time will come that war will be poured out upon all
nations, beginning at this place. (3) For behold, the Southern States
shall be divided against the Northern States, and the Southern States
will call on other nations, even the nation of Great Britain, as it is
called, and they shall also call on other nations, in order to defend
themselves against other nations; and then war shall be poured out
upon all nations. (4) And it shall come to pass after many days,
slaves shall rise up against their masters, who shall be marshalled
and disciplined for war. (5) And it shall come to pass also that the
remnants who are left of the land will marshal themselves, and shall
become exceedingly angry and shall vex the gentiles with a sore
vexation. (6) And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed the
inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and with famine, and plague, and
earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid
lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the
wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God until
the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations. (7) That
the cry of the saints, and of the blood of the saints, shall cease to
come up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth, from the earth to be
avenged of their enemies. (8) Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and
be not moved, until the day of the Lord come; for behold it cometh
quickly, saith the Lord. Amen.

   Joseph Smith received the above revelation on Christmas day,
1832. History records that the State of South Carolina was already in
a state of rebellion at that time. It's not much to prophesy about
something that is already happening.

   Mormons usually refer to the "Civil War" as one of the prophecies
that has been fulfilled, however, upon close examination it becomes
very clear that it is a failure. There are 20 different elements of
this prophecy. All 20 elements would have to come to pass in order for
this prophecy to be fulfilled. If all 20 elements of the prophecy were
to come to pass it would truly be remarkable. The probability of this
happening would be 1 in 1,048,576, which means ONLY a prophet BACKED
by GOD could accomplish it! The statistics prove that the calling of
PROPHET was NOT given to Joseph Smith.

   History records that the Civil War did not start until April 12,
1861, when Southern artillery shelled Fort Sumter in the harbor of
Charleston, South Carolina. It ended four years later on April 9,
1865. The Civil War did not result in war being poured out upon all
nations (verse 3). It also did not bring about "...a full end of all
nations."

   It is also interesting to note that the Civil War prophecy was
not published during Joseph Smith's lifetime. It was not printed until
1851 (19 years after Joseph Smith received it).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 14 ... December 27, 1832. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 88:87.

   (87) For not many days hence and the earth then shall tremble and
reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face and
shall refuse o give light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and
the stars shall become exeedingly angry, and shall cast themselves
down as a fig that falleth from off a fig-tree.

   As of March 1, 1987 more than 56,300 days have come and gone and
the moon has not been bathed in blood, the sun has not refused to give
light and the stars have not become exceedingly angry and cast
themselves down. We believe that there is not any way that this
prophecy can be made to come true in Joseph Smith's timing.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 15 ... January 4, 1833. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
vol. 1, p. 315-316.

   "And now I am prepared to say by the authority of Jesus Christ
that not many years shall pass away before the United States shall
present such a scene of bloodshed as has not a parallel in the history
of our nation; pestilence, hail, famine, and earthquake will sweep the
wicked of this generation from off the face of the land to open and
prepare the way for the return of the lost tribes of Israel from the
north country. The people of the Lord. Those who have complied with
the requirements of the new covenant, have already commenced gathering
together in Zion which is in the state of Missouri; therefore I
declare unto you the warning which the Lord has commanded to declare
unto this generation, remembering that the eyes of My Maker are upon
me, and that to him I am accountable for every word I say, wishing
nothing worse to my fellowman than their eternal salvation; therefore,
'Fear God, and give glory to Him for the hour of His judgement is
come.' Repent ye, repent ye, and embrace the everlasting covenant and
flee to Zion, before the overflowing scourge overtake you, for there
are those now living upon the earth whose eyes shall not be closed in
death until they see all these things which I have spoken, fulfilled."

   Almost 155 years have gone by and the wicked are still on the
earth. The lost tribes have not returned.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 16 ... February 27, 1833. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 89:18-21.

   (18) And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings,
walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in
their navel and marrow to their bones; (19) And shall find wisdom and
great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; (20) And shall
run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. (21) And I, the
Lord give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by
them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen.

   The above prophecy was part of the revelation on The Word of
Wisdom. The promise is given that if the Mormons will obey the Word of
Wisdom (no coffee tea, tobacco etc.) that they would obtain all of the
promises in verses 18 - 21. The facts are that there are many Mormons
that obey the Word of Wisdom to the letter and they have not found
great treasures of knowledge or hidden treasures. They run and get
weary. They walk and sometimes faint. And most certainly the
destroying angel does not pass them by. Mormons die just like any
other group of people.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 17 ... August 2, l833. Parley P. Pratt
Biography, p. 100. Also D & C 97:19.

   "Surely Zion is the City of our God, and surely Zion cannot fail,
neither be moved out of her place; for God is there and He has sworn
by the power of His might to be her.

   Zion did fail and Zion was moved out of her place. Zion is
independence, Missouri. (see #5 above) The Mormons were driven out of
Independence in the winter of 1838-1839. Another false prophecy.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 18 ... October 12, 1833. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 100:13 & 15.

   (13) And now I give unto you a word concerning Zion. Zion shall
be redeemed although she is chastened for a little season. (15)
Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work
together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the
sanctification of the church.

   154 years have gone by since this revelation was received. Can
this be considered "a little season"?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 19 ... December 10, 1833. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
Vol. 1, p. 455.

   "Therefore this not my counsel, that you retain your lands, even
unto the utmost, and employ every lawful means to seek redress of your
enemies; and pray to God day and night to return you in peace and
safety to the lands of your inheritance; and when the judge fail you,
appeal to the executive; and when the executive fail you; appeal to
the president; and when the president fail you, and all things also
fail you but God alone, and you continue to weary Him with your
importunings as the poor woman did the unjust judge. He will not fail
you to execute judgment upon your enemies, and to avenge His own elect
that cry unto Him day and night. Behold, He will not fail you. He will
come with ten thousand of His Saints, and all His adversaries shall be
destroyed with the breath of His lips."

   The facts are these:
 (1) The Mormons did not retain their lands. (in Missouri)
 (2) They did seek redress from their enemies and were turned down by

   everyone.
 (3) The Mormon god apparently did fail them because their enemies

   were not destroyed.
 (4) The enemies of the Mormon church drove them out of Missouri.
 (5) The above is a false prophecy.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 20 ... December 16, 1833. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS. Section 1, 101:17-20.

   (17) Zion shall not be moved out of her place, not-with-standing
her children are scattered. (18) They that remain, and are pure in
heart, shall return, and come to their inheritances, they and their
children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste place
of Zion -- (19) And all these things that the prophets might be
fulfilled. (20) And, behold, there is none other place appointed than
that which I have appointed; neither shall there be any other places
appointed than that which I have appointed, for the work of the
gathering of my saints--

   This is almost exactly like number 16 above. The facts are that
the Mormons were driven out of Zion. They were moved out of her place.
This is sufficient in God's way to prove this is a false prophecy.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 21 ... February 24, 1834. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 103:5-7.

   (5) But verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which
my people shall realize, inasmuch as they harken from this very hour
unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them.
(6) Behold they shall, for I decreed it, begin to prevail against mine
enemies from this very hour. (7) And by harkening to observe all the
words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall
never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued
under my feet, and the earth is given to the saints, to possess it
forever and ever.

    Mormons will say that this prophecy is a conditional prophecy.
That the people were to harken unto the counsel of God and observe all
the words that God shall speak to them. With that condition in mind,
the Mormons will never prevail, or prove superior in strength, power,
or influence.

   Mormons will never achieve anything until they are righteous and
that will NEVER happen. Isaiah made it very clear why Mormons will
never obtain the blessings that Joseph Smith promised them when he
presented one of God's eternal truth as it relates to man. "But we are
all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousness are as filthy rags;
and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have
taken us away." (ISAIAH 64:6).

   This prophecy can never be fulfilled because the Mormons will
never become righteous. The only way that anyone can become righteous
is to receive the real Jesus Christ into his/her heart and repent of
the abominations of following a false god and a false christ.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 22 ... April 23, 1834. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 104:1.

   (1) Verily I say unto you, my friends, I give unto you counsel,
and a commandment, concerning all the properties which belong to the
order which I commanded to be organized and established, to be a
united order, and an everlasting order for the benefit of my church,
and for the salvation of men until I come--

   History records that the United Order failed. (The United Order
was a communal type of order where everyone worked according to his
ability, gave everything that he produced or earned to the Bishop's
Storehouse and received from the Bishop's Storehouse according to his
needs.)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 23 ... June 22, 1834. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 105:13-15.

   (13) Therefore it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait
for a little season, for the redemption of Zion. (14) For behold, I do
not require at their hands to fight the battles of Zion; for, as I
said in a former commandment, even so will I fulfill--I will fight
your battles. (15) Behold, the destroyer I have sent forth to destroy
and lay waste mine enemies; and not many years hence they shall not be
left to pollute mine heritage, and to blaspheme my name upon the lands
which I have consecrated for the gathering together of my saints.

   History records that the enemies of the Mormons were not laid
waste in spite of the fact that the destroyer had been sent forth.
There is ample evidence to suggest that the destroyer was in fact a
man named Porter Rockwell. He was not out to destroy those who were
frustrating the Mormons. This is another prophecy that was frustrated
because the Mormons continued to be persecuted. In fact it was just
4-1/2 years later that the Mormons were driven out of Zion.
(Independence, Missouri)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 24 ... August 16, l834, History of the Church,
vol. 2, page 145.

   "DEAR BRETHREN ... I shall now proceed to give you such counsel
as the Spirit of the Lord may dictate .... use every effort to gather
to those regions and locate themselves, to be in readiness to move
into Jackson country in two years from the eleventh of September next,
which is the appointed time for the redemption of Zion....."

   By September 11, l836 the Mormons should have all been gathered
in Independence, Missouri. (Zion) If all of the other prophecies
regarding Zion were to come true (which they didn't), lived the United
Order (which failed), built the temple (which was never built), etc.
etc. etc.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 25 ... November 25, 1834. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 106:4.

   (4) And again, verily I say unto you, the coming of the Lord
draweth nigh, and it overtaketh the world as a thief in the night ---

   153 years have gone by since this prophecy was given and the Lord
has not returned. Does nigh really mean more than 147 years?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 26 ... February 14, 1835. History of the Church,
vol. 2, page 182.

   "President Smith then stated that the meeting had been called,
because God had commanded it; and it was made known to him by vision*
and by the Holy Spirit. He then gave a revelation of some of the
circumstances attending us while journeying to Zion -- our trials,
sufferings: and said God had not designed all this for nothing, but He
had it in remembrance yet; and it was the will of God that those who
went to Zion, with a determination to lay down their lives, if
necessary, should be ordained to the ministry, and go forth to prune
the vineyard for the last time, or the coming of the Lord, which was
nigh -- even thirty-six years should wind up the scene."

   Jesus Christ should have returned by February 14, 1891. He
didn't. Another false prophecy.

   It is interesting to note that Matthew 24:36 says that the exact
date of Christ's coming is unknown. "But of that day and hour knoweth
no man, no not the angels of heaven, but my Father only." See also
Mark 13:34 and Acts1:7.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 27 ... February 14, 1835. As reported in
PROPHECIES OF JOSEPH SMITH AND THEIR FULFILLMENT, Nephi Morris,
Deseret Book Co., 1926, page 261.

   "In due time thou shalt go to Jerusalem, the land of thy father,
and be a watchmen unto the house of Israel; and by the hands shall the
Most High do a great work, which shall prepare the way and greatly
facilitate the gathering of that people."

   This was a prophecy given to Orson Hyde, one of the twelve
apostles that Joseph Smith had chosen.

   History records that Orson Hyde did go to Jerusalem.  However,
for those Mormons that feel that he did a great work and greatly
facilitated the gathering of the Jews they are sadly mistaken. Orson
Hyde dedicated Jerusalem on October 24, 1841. It took 107 years for
the Jews to return. We are convinced and are safe to state that when
the Jews returned in 1948 there was not one single Jew who had ever
heard of Orson Hyde.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 28 ... January 21, 1836. CHURCH HISTORY,
vol.2, pages 380,381.

   "The heavens were opened upon us, and I beheld the celestial
kingdom of God, and the glory thereof, whether in the body or out I
cannot tell ..... I saw the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb, who are now
upon the earth, who hold the keys of the last ministry, in foreign
lands, standing together in a circle, much fatigued, with their
clothes tattered and feet swollen, with their eyes cast downward, and
Jesus standing in their midst, and they did not behold Him. The
Saviour looked upon them and wept.

   I also beheld Elder M'Lellin in the south, standing upon a hill,
surrounded by a vast multitude, preaching to them, and a lame man
standing before him supported by his crutches; he threw them down at
his word and leaped as a hart, by the mighty power of God. Also, I saw
Elder Brigham Young standing in a strange land, in the far south and
west, in a desert place, upon a rock in the midst of about a dozen men
of color, who appeared hostile. He was preaching to them in their own
tongue, and the angel of God standing above his head, with a drawn
sword in his hand, protecting him. But he did not see it. And I
finally saw the Twelve in the celestial kingdom of God. I also beheld
the redemption of Zion, and many things which the tongue of man
cannot describe in full."

   History does not record any of the above things ever happening.
The part regarding Elder M'Lellin is suspect because he was
excommunicated on May 11, 1838. He became one of the bitterest enemies
the Mormon church ever had, why wasn't he destroyed as promised by the
god of Mormonism?

   Joseph Smith recorded that he saw the Twelve in the celestial
kingdom of God. How is that possible when 5 of the apostles were
either excommunicated or apostatized, never to return to the church?
According to Mormon doctrine this would not be possible (for apostates
and excommunicated individuals to reach the celestial kingdom).

1. Lyman Johnson ... Excommunicated April 13, 1838, Church History,
vol...3:20.

2. Brigham Young ... O.K.

3. Heber C. Kimball ... O.K.

4. Orson Hyde ... Disfellowshipped August 4, 1835 Priesthood restored
June 27,1839. Restored as apostle at conference of October 6,7 & 8,
1839.

5. David W. Patten ... O.K.

6. Luke S. Johnson ... Apostatized December 1837, Church History,
vol. 3:31

7. William E. M'lellin ... Excommunicated May 11, 1838, Church
History, vol. 3:31

8. John F. Boynton ... Apostatized December, 1837, Church History,
vol. 2:528.

9. Orson Pratt ... Rebaptized & Ordained January 20, 1843.  Restored
As apostle, Church History, vol. 5:255. (What happened to him?)

10. William Smith ... Excommunicated October 19, 1845, Church History,
vol. 7:483.

11. Thomas B. Marsh ... Excommunicated March 17, 1839, Church History,
vol. 3:284.

12. Parley P. Pratt ... O.K.

   It should be noted that Thomas B. Marsh was rebaptized in 1857
and died in Utah a member of the Church, though never again a member
of the Twelve.

   It is interesting to note that the first part of the above vision
was accepted as scripture on April 3, 1976. The last part of the
vision (listed above) was not accepted as scripture. Is it possible
that the reason that the Mormon leaders did not present the entire
vision to be accepted as scripture is that it was clear that the last
part could not happen? If this is so then it would make the Mormon
leaders wilful deceivers.

   It is also interesting to note that the vision has been altered
by Mormon leaders. The vision was recorded in Joseph Smith's diary
under the date of January 21, 1836. In Joseph Smith's diary the
beginning of the revelation read as follows;
"The heavens were opened upon us and I beheld the celestial Kingdom of
God, I saw father Adam, and Abraham and Michael and my father and
mother, my brother Alvin..." (Joseph Smith's Diary, January 21, 1836;
original in LDS historical department).

   Now, what is wrong with the above part? The problem is that in
Mormon theology Adam is Michael. Thus if Adam is Michael then Joseph
Smith could not have seen "both" of them in the celestial kingdom.
Because of this problem the Mormon leaders deleted the words "and
Michael" from the revelation.

   We pray that each of you take the time to check into the
thousands and thousands of changes that have been made in Mormon
scriptures including the most recent one regarding the Indians (number
2 above).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 29 ... April 3, 1836. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 110:16.

   (16) Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into
your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of
the Lord is near, even at the door.

   145 years have gone by and Jesus has not returned. There was a
dreadful day about 2-1/2 years later when the Mormons were driven not
of Zion (Independence).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 30 ... August 6, 1836. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 111: 1-11.

   This was a revelation given through Joseph Smith at Salem,
Massachusetts.

   (1) I, the Lord your God, am not displeased with your coming this
journey, notwithstanding your follies. (2) I have much treasure in
this city, for you, for the benefit of Zion, and many people in this
city, whom I will gather out in due time for the benefit of Zion,
through your instrumentality. (3) Therefore, it is expedient that you
should form acquaintance with men in this city, as you shall be led,
and as it shall be given you. (4) And it shall come to pass in due
time that I will give this city into your hands, that you shall have
power over it, in so-much that they shall not discover your secret
parts; and its wealth pertaining to gold and silver shall be yours.
(5) Concern not yourselves about your debts, for I will give you power
to pay them. (6) Concern not yourselves about Zion, for I will deal
mercifully with her. (7) Tarry in this place, and in the regions round
about. (8) And the place where it is my will that you would tarry, for
the main, shall be signalized unto you by the peace and power of my
Spirit, that shall flow unto you. (9) This place you may obtain by
hire. And inquire diligently concerning the more ancient inhabitants
and founders of this city. (10) For there are more treasures than one
for you in this city. (11) Therefore, be ye as wise as serpents and
yet without sin; and I will order all things for your good, as fast as
ye are able to receive them. Amen.

   History records that Joseph Smith and other leaders of the Mormon
church found no treasures in Salem, Massachusetts. The Mormons have
never taken power over Salem. The silver and gold were not given to
them by their god. If ever there was a prophecy that did not come to
pass this is it. Time has run out on Joseph again. Actually the time
ran out some time in September, 1836 when Joseph Smith returned to
Kirtland, Ohio. He returned with no treasure.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 31 ... April, 1837. LATTER-DAY SAINT MESSENGER
AND ADVOCATE, page 488.

   "This place (Kirtland, Ohio) must be built up, and will be built
up, and every brother that will take hold and help secure these
contracts (for land) shall be rich."

   The Mormons were driven out of Kirtland, Ohio. Nobody became rich
by helping to secure the contracts for land. In fact, most of the men
that helped Joseph Smith in Kirtland lost most of their money in the
Kirtland anti-Banking Society. Joseph Smith himself went bankrupt.
Every thing about this prophetic utterance failed.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 32 ... July 23, 1837. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 112: 3-12.

   (This is a prophecy about Thomas B. Marsh, one of the original
twelve apostles. In fact he was the president of the twelve apostles
when this prophecy was given about him.)

   (3) Nevertheless, inasmuch as thou hast abased thyself thou shalt
be exalted; therefore, all thy sins are forgiven thee. (4) Let thy
heart be of good cheer before my face; and thou shalt bear record of
my name, not only unto the Gentiles, but also unto the Jew; and thou
shalt send forth my word unto the ends of the earth. (5) Contend thou,
therefore, morning by morning; and day after day let thy warning voice
go forth; and when the night cometh let not the inhabitants of the
earth slumber, because of they speech. (6) Let thy habitation be known
in Zion, and remove not thy house; for I, the Lord, have a great work
for thee to do, in publishing my name among the children of men. (7)
Therefore, gird up thy loins for the work, let thy feet be shod also,
for thou art chosen, and thy path lieth among the mountains, and among
many nations. (8) And by thy word many high ones shall be brought low,
and by thy word many low ones shall be exalted. (9) Thy voice shall be
a rebuke unto the transgressor; and at thy rebuke let the tongue of
the slanderer cease its perverseness. (10) Be thou humble; and the
Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy
prayers. (11) I know thy heart, and have heard thy prayers concerning
thy brethren. Be not partial towards them in love above many others,
but let thy love be for them as for thyself; and let thy love abound
unto all men, and unto all who love my name. (12) And pray for thy
brethren of the Twelve. Admonish them sharply for my name's sake, and
let them be admonished for all their sins, and be ye faithful before
me unto my name ....

   History records that Thomas B. Marsh was excommunicated on March
17, 1839 (CHURCH HISTORY, vol. 3:284). Even though he was re-baptized
in 1857 and died a member of the church in Utah he never did any of
the things outlined in the above revelation (prophecy). He never did a
great work in the church. In fact he became for many years a bitter
enemy of the church. The facts are that the Mormon god did not know
his heart (verse 11), otherwise he would have known that he was going
to be excommunicated and fight against the church.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 33 ... 1837. Oliver B. Huntington Journal,
Book 14, Original at Huntington Library, San Marino, California.
Also found in the Young Woman's Journal, published by the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of Zion, 1892, vol. 3,
pp. 263, 264.

   "Inhabitants of the Moon are more of a uniform size than the
inhabitants of the Earth, being about 6 feet in height. They dress
very much like the Quaker Style, and are quite general in Style, or
the one fashion of dress. They live to be very old; coming (sic)
generally, near a thousand years. This is the description of them as
given by Joseph the Seer, and he could "see" whatever he asked the
Father in the name of Jesus to see."

   "As far back as 1837. I know that he said the moon was inhabited
by men and women the same as this earth, and that they lived to a
greater age than we do, that they live generally to near the age of
1000 years. He described the men as average near six feet in height,
and dressing quite uniformly in something near the Quaker style..."

   No comment is necessary on the above "revelation".

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 34 ... April 17, 1838. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 114:1.

   (1) Verily thus saith the Lord: It is wisdom in my servant David
W. Patten, that he settle up all his business as soon as he possibly
can, and make a disposition of his merchandise, that he may perform a
mission unto me next spring, in company with others, even twelve
including himself, to testify of my name and bear glad tidings unto
all the world.

   History records that on October 27, 1838, Apostle David W. Patten
was buried at Far West, Missouri (CHURCH CHRONOLOGY, page 15). If you
are going to say that he was not worthy then let me tell you what
Joseph Smith said about him. "Brother David Patten was a very worthy
man, beloved by all good men who knew him. He was one of the Twelve
Apostles, and died as he had lived, a man of God, and strong in the
faith of a glorious resurrection, in a world where mobs will hue no
power or place. One of his last expressions to his wife was --
'Whatever you do else, O! do not deny the faith'" (HISTORY OF THE
CHURCH, vol. 3, p.171).

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 35 ... April 26, 1838. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 115:1, 7-9, 12.

   (1) Verily thus saith the Lord... (7) Let the city, Far West, be
a holy and consecrated Land unto me; and it shall be called most holy,
for the ground upon which thou standest is holy. (8) Therefore, I
command you to build a house unto me, for the gathering together of my
saints, that they may worship me. (9) And let there be a beginning of
this work, and a foundation, and a preparatory work, this following
summer; is holy. (12) Thus let them from that time forth labor
diligently until it shall be finished, from the corner stone thereof
unto the top thereof, until there shall not anything remain that is
not finished.

   149 years have gone by and the temple is still not built. The
cornerstone of the temple was laid on July 4, 1838 amid elaborate
ceremonies (A COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF
LATTER-DAY SAINTS, B. H. Roberts, page 440)

   For 149 years the building of this temple has been frustrated,
therefore it cannot be from God but from the mind of man. (Section
3:3)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 36 ... July 8, 1838. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 117:12-15.

   (12) And again, I say unto you, I remember my servant Oliver
Granger; behold, verily I say unto him that his name shall be held in
sacred remembrance from generation to generation, forever and ever,
saith the Lord. (13) Therefore, let him contend earnestly for the
redemption of the First Presidency of my Church, saith the Lord; and
when he falls he shall rise again, for his sacrifice shall be more
sacred unto me than his increase, saith the Lord. (14) Therefore, let
him come up hither speedily, unto the land Zion; and in the due time
he shall be made a merchant unto my name, saith the Lord, for the
benefit of my people. (15) Therefore let no man despise my servant
Oliver Granger, but let the blessings of my people be on him forever
and ever...

   The facts are that it is very rare that you can find anyone in
the Mormon church who has ever heard of Oliver Granger. His name is
supposed to be held in sacred remembrance from generation to
generation, forever and ever. What happened?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 37 ... March 20, 1839. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 121:5-15,33.

   (5) Let thine anger be kindled against our enemies; and, in the
fury of thine heart, with thy sword avenge us of our wrongs. (6)
Remember thy suffering saints, O our God; and thy servants will
rejoice in thy name forever. (7) My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine
adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; (8) And
then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt
triumph over all thy foes. (9) Thy friends do stand by thee, and they
shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands. (10) Thou
art not yet as Job; thy friends do not contend against thee, neither
charge thee with transgression, as they did Job. (11) And they who do
charge thee with transgression, their hope shall be blasted, and their
prospects shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning
rays of the rising sun; (12) And also that God hath set his hand and
seal to change the times and seasons, and to blind their minds, that
they may not understand his marvelous workings; and take them in their
own craftiness; (13) Also because their hearts are corrupted, and the
things which they are willing to bring upon others, and love to have
others suffer, may come upon themselves to the very uttermost; (14)
That they may be disappointed also, and their hopes may be cut off;
(15) And not many years hence, that they and their posterity shall be
swept from under heaven, saith God, that not one of them is left to
stand by the wall. (33) How long can rolling waters remain impure?
What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his
puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn
it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge
from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints.

   The preface to Section 121 in the 1981 edition of the DOCTRINE
AND COVENANTS indicates that the above remarks are "Prayer and
prophecies written by Joseph Smith the Prophet, while he was a
prisoner in the jail at Liberty, Missouri, dated March 20, 1839."

   Joseph Smith's god promised that he (and the Mormons) would
triumph over all their foes. They didn't and he didn't. They had just
been driven out of Zion (Independence) by their enemies. Joseph Smith
was to die by the hands of his enemies in a little over 5 years. The
Mormons were to be driven all the way to Utah in just 8 years.

   When were the times and seasons changed? (verse 12) When were the
minds of their enemies blinded (verse 12)? When were the enemies of
the Mormons swept from under heaven? (verse 15) They, and their
posterity? Not one of them left to stand against the wall? We can't
find any evidence of anything happening except the enemies of the
Mormons overcoming them and driving them out. In spite of the fact
that the Mormon god kept promising them that they would conquer their
enemies.

   Where is all of the knowledge that has been poured down on the
heads of the Latter-day Saints? Not the knowledge of man. The
knowledge from heaven. Where are the Bible scholars? Where are the
scholars in Hebrew and Greek? The Mormons as a whole are abysmally
lacking in knowledge from heaven.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 38 ... September 18, 1839. Reed Peck's
Manuscript.

   "Within three years they should march to Jackson County and there
should not be a dog to open his mouth against them."

   148 years have gone by and the Mormons have not marched to
Jackson County yet. They should have had their marching orders prior
to 1843. They had already tried to march to Zion (Independence,
Jackson County, Missouri) in 1834 and the march failed (see number 20
above). They were to move into Zion (Independence) no later than
September 11, 1836 (see number 23 above). The facts are that they were
driven out of Zion and have never returned.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 39 ... January 19, 1841. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 124:20-21.

   (20) And again, verily I say unto you, my servant George Miller
is without guile; he may be trusted because of the integrity which he
has to my testimony I, the Lord, love him. (21) I therefore say unto
you I seal upon his head the office of a bishopric, like unto my
servant Edward Partridge, that he may receive the consecrations of
mine house, that he may administer blessings upon the heads of the
poor of my people, saith the Lord. Let no man despise my servant
George, for he shall honor me.

   The following can be found in the CHURCH CHRONOLOGY (page 36)
under the date of Sunday, December 3, 1848.

   "At a meeting held in the Great Salt Lake City Fort, fellowship
was withdrawn from Apostle Lyman Wight and Bishop George Miller."

   Another promise frustrated (Section 3, verse 3). Of course the
Mormon would say that all blessings are predicated on the
righteousness of the people. Let's see what the Bible says about the
righteous.

   "As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one: "(Romans
3:10). "For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;"
(Romans 3:23).

   What does none righteous mean to you? What does all have sinned
mean to you? To me it means everyone who has ever lived and will ever
live. THAT'S WHY WE NEED JESUS CHRIST. Without Him we would all be
lost.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 40 ... March, 1841. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 125:1-4.

   (1) What is the will of the Lord concerning the saints in the
Territory of Iowa? (2) Verily, thus saith the Lord, I say unto you, if
those who call themselves by my name and are saying to be my saints,
if they will do my will and keep my commandments concerning them, let
them gather themselves together unto the places which I shall appoint
unto them by my servant Joseph, and build up cities unto my name, that
they may be prepared for that which is in store for a time to come.
(3) Let them build up a city unto my name upon the land opposite the
city of Nauvoo, and let the name of Zarahemia be named upon it. (4)
And let all those who come from the east, and the west, and the north,
and the south, that have desires to dwell therein, take up their
inheritance in the same, as well as in the city of Nashville, or the
city of Nauvoo and in all the stakes which I have appointed, saith the
Lord.

   What happened to Zion? It was supposed to flourish. It was not to
be moved out of her place (see number 16 above). History records that
Zarahemia failed, along with Nauvoo, Kirtland, Independence and every
other attempt to settle until they finally arrived in Salt Lake where
there was nobody to contend with for the land.

   Since the promises of the Mormon god have not been kept so many
times in the past, we see no reason to believe that he will produce on
the promise of Eternal Life. It is an empty promise coming from this
"proven" FALSE GOD.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 41 ... August 6, 1842. George Q. Cannon Diary.

   "At Montrose, Iowa, August 6, 1842, he (Joseph Smith) uttered a
remarkable prophecy, which like every other prediction from his lips
has been literally fulfilled. He declared the Saints would continue to
suffer much affliction and would finally be driven to the Rocky
Mountains. Many would apostatize, others would be put to death by
their persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of their exile;
and many of those who listened to him would live to assist in building
cities and to see the Saints become a mighty people in the tops of the
Rocky Mountains." (See also CHURCH HISTORY, vol. 5 page 85)

   This is a questionable prophecy of Joseph Smith. If the Mormons
want to accept it (evidence suggests that it is a forgery) they still
have some problems with it. All you have to do is look at some of the
statistics regarding Mormons in the Rocky Mountains to see that they
are not as mighty as the public relations department of the Mormon
church would have the world believe.

1. Utah has one of the highest divorce rates in the U.S.
2. Utah has a very high number of persons on welfare. (When you

   combine the government and church numbers together it is perhaps

   the highest in the nation on a per capita basis.)
3. Utah has one of the highest suicide rates in the nation.

   (Especially high among teenagers.)
4. Utah has a very high venereal disease rate.
5. Utah has a very high percentage of marriages where the bride is

   pregnant at the time of the marriage.
6. Salt Lake City is known as the "Stock Fraud" capital of the U.S.
7. In spite of being the home of the Mormon church, Utah has a very

   high consumption of alcohol on a per capita basis. There is a very

   high number of women alcoholics in Utah.
8. There is a problem with drugs in Utah that would not be expected in

   the home of the Mormon church.
9. Counterfeiting is a problem in Utah.
10. Homosexuality and lesbianism is a real problem in Utah. (And the

   entire Mormon Church.)
11. Bankruptcy is running at twice the national average in Utah.

   I believe that the facts are that the Mormons are not the mighty
people that the public relations department of the Mormon church would
have you believe.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 42 ... August 6, 1842. Anson Call Diary, as
reported in PROPHECIES OF JOSEPH SMITH, AND THEIR FULFILLMENT, Nephi
Lowell Morris, Deseret Book Company, 1926.

   "After drinking a drought of ice water he (Joseph Smith) said,
Breathren, this water tastes much like the crystal streams that are
running in the Rocky Mountains which some of you will participate of.
There are some of these standing here that will perform a great work
in that land (pointing to Shadrack Roundy and a number of others whom
I have forgotten). There is Anson, he shall go and assist in building
cities from one end of the country to the other and you shall perform
as great a work as has ever been done by man, and the nations of the
earth shall be astonished and many of them will be gathered in that
land and assist in building cities."

   History records that Anson Call assisted in settling Millard
County, Utah, a southern semi-desert region of which Fillmore is the
county seat (Church Chronology, page 44), The other "large" cities in
that district are Delta, Hinckley, Kanosh, Leamington, Oasis and
Abraham.

   Anson Call did not assist in building cities from one end of the
country to the other. He did not perform as great a work as has ever
been done by man. Certainly the nations of the earth are not
astonished at his achievements.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 43 ... September 1, 1842. DOCTRINE AND
COVENANTS, Section 127:2

   (2) For to this day has the God of my father delivered me out of
them all, and will deliver me from henceforth; for behold, and lo, I
shall triumph over all my enemies, for the Lord God hath spoken it.

   Another promise that Joseph Smith would triumph over his enemies.
It simply did not come to pass. Joseph Smith died at the hands of his
enemies. The Mormons were driven out of every place they tried to
settle.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 44 ... April 5, 1843. History of the Church,
vol. 5, page 336 and Joseph Smith's Diary, March 10, 1843 - July 14,
1843.

   "Were I going to prophesy, I would say the end (of the world)
would not come in 1844, 5 or 6, or in forty years. There are those of
the rising generation who shall not taste death till Christ comes. I
was once praying earnestly upon this subject, and a voice said unto
me. 'My son, if thou livest until thou are eighty-five years of age,
thou shall see the face of the Son of Man.' I was left to draw my own
conclusions concerning this; and I took the liberty to conclude that
if I did live to that time, He would make His appearance. But I do not
say whether He will make His appearance or I shall go where he is. I
prophesy in the name of the Lord God, and let it be written --- the
Son of Man will not come in the clouds of heaven till I am eighty five
years old."

   The preceding account is found in the CHURCH HISTORY. Notice the
changes that have been made from the account in Joseph Smith's Diary.

   "...I prophesy in the name of the Lord God --- and let it be
written: that the Son of Man will not come in the heavens till I am 85
years old 48 years hence or about 1890..."

   The Mormon historians have deleted "48 years hence or about
1890." With the death, in the 1970's, of the last remaining Mormon
that was alive at the time of the prophesy, We can safely say that the
rising generation came and died and Jesus has not returned. (Remember
Matthew 24:36) He also did not come about 1890.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 45 ... May 18, 1843. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
vol. 5, page 394.

   President Smith, in concluding his remarks, said that if the
government, which received into its coffers the money of citizens for
its public treasury, cannot protect such citizens in their lives and
property, it is an old granny anyhow; and I prophesy in the name of
the Lord God of Israel, unless the United States redress the wrongs
committed upon the Saints in the state of Missouri and punish the
crimes committed by her officers that in a few years the government
will be utterly overthrown and wasted, and there will not be so much a
potsherd left,..."

   History records that Congress did not grant protection to the
Mormons. It also records that Congress did not redress the wrongs
committed against the Saints in the state of Missouri.  There was no
punishment of her officers. 144 years have gone by and Congress is
still intact. The government has not been destroyed (overthrown and
wasted). Certainly you can see that this is a false prophecy.
Remember, all you need is one. (Deut. 18:22)

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 46 ... July, 12, 1843. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS,
Section 132:6, 8, 52-54, 62 & 66.

   (6) And as pertaining to the new and everlasting covenant,
(Plural Marriage) it was instituted for the fullness of my glory; and
he that receiveth a fullness thereof must and shall abide the law, or
he shall be damned, said the Lord God. (8) Behold, mine house is a
house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. (12)
I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment -- that no
man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my
law, saith the Lord. (52) And let mine handmaid, Emma Smith, receive
all those that have been given unto my servant Joseph, and who are
virtuous and pure before me; and those who are not pure, and have said
they were pure, shall be destroyed, saith the Lord God. (53) For I am
the Lord thy God, and ye shall obey my voice; and I give unto my
servant Joseph that he shall be made ruler over many things; for he
hath been faithful over a few things, and from henceforth I will
strengthen him. (54) And I command mine handmaid, Emma Smith, to abide
and cleave unto my servant Joseph, and to none else. But if she will
not abide this commandment she shall be destroyed, saith the Lord; for
I am the Lord thy God, and will destroy her if she abide not in my
law. (62) And if he gave ten virgins given unto him by this law, he
cannot commit adultery, for they belong to him, and they are given
unto him; therefore is he justified. (66) And now, as pertaining to
this law, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will reveal more unto you,
hereafter; therefore, let this suffice for the present. Behold, I am
Alpha and Omega. Amen.

   To begin with, Plural Marriage was to be an everlasting covenant.
Where is it now? Everyone who is not living the law of Plural Marriage
today is damned. (verse 6)

   Verse 8 states that God's house is not a house of confusion.
Amen. Mormon doctrine is so full of confusion that it cannot be from
the One True God. Only a false god could create such a mass of
confusion as exists in Mormonism.

   Verse 12 states that no man shall come unto the Father but by me
or by my word, which is my law..." This is in absolute contradiction
to God's word in Galatians 2:16 and 3:10 & 11.

   2:16 - Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the
law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus
Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by
the works of the law: for by the works of the law shall no flesh be
justified.

   3:10 - For as many as are of the works of the law are under the
curse: for it is written, cursed is every one that continueth not in
all things which are written in the the book of the law to do them.

   3:11 - But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of
God, it is evident for, The just shall live by faith.

   Verse 53 states that Joseph Smith would be strengthened. Less
than one year later he was dead at the hands of his enemies.

   Verse 62 is not only contrary to God's word in the Bible but is
also contrary to Section 101 of the 1835 Doctrine & Covenants where it
said in verse 4, "...we declare that we believe, that one man should
have one wife; and one woman but one husband, except in case of death,
when either is at liberty to marry again..." Here we have another
example of the Mormon god changing his mind.

   Regarding verse 66, where is the additional information on the
law of Plural Marriage that was supposed to be given to Joseph Smith?
Certainly, if there was more to be revealed then it should have been
revealed to one of the Presidents of the Mormon Church before now.

   We believe, based on the "facts" as outlined by the Mormon church
and by historical documentation, that that the "new and everlasting
covenant of Plural Marriage" was and IS from Satan.  We note the
existence of a Mormon sect living in Mexico who still practice this
"according to the law of God and His prophet, Joseph Smith, Junior"!

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 47 ... January 17, 1864. Joseph Smith Blessing.

   "A blessing, given to Joseph Smith, 3rd, by his father, Joseph
Smith, Jun., on Jan 17, 1844. Blessed of the Lord is my son Joseph,
who is called the third, for the Lord knows the integrity of his
heart, and loves him, because of his faith, and righteous desires. And
for this cause, has the Lord raised him up; that the promises made to
the fathers might be fulfilled, even that the annointing of the
progenitor shall be upon the head of my son, and his seed after him,
from generation to generation. For he shall be my successor to the
Presidency of the High Priesthood: a Seer, and a Revelator, and a
Prophet, unto the Church; which appointment belongeth to him by
blessing, and also by right. Verily, thus saith the Lord; if he abides
in me, his days shall be lengthened upon the earth, but, if he abides
not in me, I the Lord, will receive him, in an instant, unto myself.
When he is grown, he shall be a strength to his brethren, and a
comfort to his mother. Angels will minister unto him, and he will be
wafted as on eagle's wings, and be as wise as serpents, even a
multiplicity of blessings shall be his. Amen."

   We state that this is the most clear cut false prophecy Joseph
Smith ever gave. The key is in the second paragraph. History records
that Joseph Smith, III lived a long and "full" life into his 80's. He
did not abide in the Mormon church. He abandoned the Utah church and
became the President of the RLDS church on April 6, 1860.

   The fact that he lived to be such an old age and the fact that he
was not taken in an instant because he did not abide with the Utah
church is proof positive that this is a false prophecy.

   There is another aspect of this prophecy that most everyone has
overlooked. This prophecy was only one of eight possible methods for
the succession to the Presidency that Joseph Smith had established.
(see SUNSTONE, vol 6, No 2, pages 2-4)

1. By a counselor in the First Presidency.
2. By a special appointment.
3. Through the office of Associate President.
4. By the Presiding Patriarch.
5. By the Council of Fifty.
6. By the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
7. By the three priesthood councils.
8. By a descendant of Joseph Smith, Jr.

   In Section 132, verse 8, the god of Mormonism states, "Behold,
mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of
confusion." We submit that the provision of eight possible ways for
the succession to the Presidency is utter chaos, especially the eight
listed above.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 48 ... June 19, 1844. Mormon Neighbor.

   "I therefore warn the lawless not to be precipitate in any
interference in our affairs, for as sure as there is a God in Israel,
we shall ride triumphant over oppression."

    On June 27, 1844 Joseph Smith was dead at the hand of his enemies.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 49 ... MILLENNIAL STAR, 19:343.

   The Kirtland anti-bank was to "Swallow up all other banks."

   The Kirtland "Anti-bank" failed in the summer of 1837.

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 50 ... Compendium, 1882, page 271.

   "The time is soon coming when no man will have any peace but in
Zion (Independence, Missouri) and her Stakes."

   Over 137 years have gone by since this Prophecy was uttered. Is
that soon?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 51 ... ROCKY MOUNTAIN SAINTS, Stenhouse, page
42.

   "Joseph Smith prophesied by revelation that W.W. Phelps would not
taste of death till Jesus came. Often in private and in public did Mr.
Philps boast to the saints of his blessing, given to him by revelation
and prophecy through Joseph."

   In March, 1872, the Salt Lake City papers carried the following
announcement: "Phelps - William Wines Phelps, Born in the state of New
Jersey, February 1792, died March 7,1872, in Salt Lake City, Utah."

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 52 ... November 28, 1841. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH,
vol. 4. page 467.

   "I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct
of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man
would get nearer to God by abiding its precepts, than by another
book."

   If the BOOK OF MORMON is the most correct book on earth, why have
there been at least 3,914 changes in it since the first edition in
1830? We have a photo-mechanical copy of the 1830 edition with all of
the changes marked. We even make note of the 1981 change in 2 Nephi
30:6 which changed "white and delightsome" to "pure and delightsome".

   Verse 16-20 of Section 3 prophecies that the Lamanites will be
converted. To Mormons the Lamanites are the Indians. The Mormon church
has been trying to convert the Indians for 153 years to no avail. A
large majority of the Indians that they have converted are totally
inactive. This is especially true in Latin America and South America.
The Indians go in the front door and very soon go out the back door.

   There is another interesting scripture in the BOOK OF MORMON
regarding the Indians. 2 Nephi 30:6 includes a prophecy that the
Lamanites (Indians) would turn "white and delightsome" in a few
generations after accepting the gospel. It is interesting to note that
the handwritten manuscript of 2 Nephi 30:6 has "white and
delightsome". In 1840 Joseph Smith directed that it be changed to
"pure and delightsome." Brigham Young directed that it be changed back
to "white and delightsome". It has remained "white and delightsome"
until 1981 where it has now appeared as "pure and delightsome" with no
footnote indicating why it was changed. Is it possible that now that
sufficient time has gone by to see that the Lamanites are not going to
turn "white and delightsome" after several generations of being
members of the Mormon Church, that it is prudent to change the verse
to "pure and delightsome" which is easier to defend? Honest editing
would at least place a footnote by the change to explain why the
change had been made.

   Why can't you find anything in the BOOK OF MORMON about some of
the essential doctrines of the Mormon church? Such as the following:

1. God has a body of flesh and bones.
2. God is an exalted man.
3. God is a product of eternal progression.
4. The plurality of Gods.
5. God "organized" the world rather than "creating" it.
6. There is no eternal hell and punishment.
7. Men can become gods.
8. "Intelligences" are eternal.
9. Pre-existing spirits of men.
10. Marriage for eternity.
11. Polygamy is not an abomination in the sight of God.
12. Three degrees of glory.
13. A mother in heaven.
14. A Melchizedek priesthood consisting of the offices of Elder,

    Seventy and High Priest.
15. An Aaronic priesthood consisting of the offices of Deacon,

    Teacher and Priest.
16. The functions and offices of Evangelists, Bishoprics, Stake

    Presidencies, Assistants to the Twelve, a First Presidency and a

    President of the Church.

   If the BOOK OF MORMON contains "...the fullness of the gospel of
Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also;" why aren't the
above doctrines found in it?

FALSE PROPHESY NUMBER 53 ... JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, vol. 12:204.

   "How long will it be before the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith
will be fulfilled? He said if the Constitution of the United States
were saved at all it must be done by this people. It will not be many
years before these words come to pass."

   If Joseph Smith really said the above, and I have no reason to
doubt Brigham Young, then at least 143 years have gone by since Joseph
Smith said it. (He died in June, 1844) Of course the time element was
added by Brigham Young, but we are discussing only one FALSE PROPHET,
at this time.

   The above prophecies are only a few of the prophecies of Joseph
Smith. We declare that the ones listed above are false. Some of them
are more clearly false than others. According to Deuteronomy 18:22 all
you need is one.

   In this text We have only tested Joseph Smith according to the
two tests. There are at least two others.

   "To the law and to the testimony; if they speak not according to
this word, it is because there is no light in them." (Isaiah 8:20)

   "The ancient and honorable, he is the head; and the prophet that
teacheth lies, he is the tail." (Isaiah 9:15)

   If you apply the above two tests to Joseph Smith, the case
against him is devastating. The first applies to doctrines that are
taught by Joseph Smith that are not in harmony with the Bible. (Law
and testimony) There are so many doctrines that he taught that are not
in harmony with the Bible that it would take an entire book to cover
them.

   The second one applies to the prophet that teacheth lies.  That
would take another book.

   Verse 114 and 115 of Section 84 record that the cities of New
York, Albany and Boston were to be destroyed (desolation and utter
abolishment) if they rejected the sound of the Mormon gospel. History
records that Joseph Smith and Bishop Newell K. Whitney went to these
cities in response to verse 114 and 115. There is no record of these
cities ever receiving the Mormon gospel during the life of Newell K.
Whitney or Joseph Smith. In fact the Mormon church is till very small
in those cities. If these verses were truly from God then these cities
should have been destroyed by now. I believe this is another evidence
of Joseph Smith failing as a prophet of God.

   Remember, all you need is one false prophecy to have a false
prophet. Christians have a Living Prophet who is GOD and our personal
Savior. We follow the "Lamb of God" who died for us and we are aware
of HIS sacrifice on our behalf.

    If you now see the error that you presently live in, we ask that
you pray this prayer:

   FATHER, I AM SORRY FOR MY SINS AND MY SIN OF IGNORING YOUR WORD
AND FOLLOWING MEN TO BE THE ONES WHO CAN LEAD TO SALVATION. I NOW KNOW
THIS IS WRONG AND AGAINST YOUR WORD AND HUMBLY ASK FOR YOUR
FORGIVENESS AND MERCY. I ACKNOWLEDGE THE SACRIFICE OF JESUS AS PAYMENT
FOR MY SINS AND THANK YOU FOR THIS RELEASE. LORD JESUS, COME INTO MY
HEART AND LIVE THERE AND GUIDE MY STEPS FROM THIS DAY FORWARD. ALLOW
ME TO BE YOUR VESSEL ON EARTH TO CARRY THE TRUE MESSAGE OF YOUR LOVE
TO ALL MEN. THESE THINGS I NOW PRAY IN THE NAME OF MY TRUE SAVIOR AND
LORD, JESUS CHRIST. AMEN

Computers For Christ - San Jose

For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon
