   "CORRECTLY TRANSLATED" 

   When we visited Temple Square in Salt Lake City, Utah, we were told 
several things concerning the book of Mormon.  We were told by our 
Mormon tour guides...  

   'That there was nothing written in the Book of Mormon that would 
contradict with the Holy Bible.  We were told that the two books were 
in total agreement with each other.  In fact, that the two books 
compliment each other.' 

   We also saw engraved on fine stone the 'Articles of Faith' 
that the Mormons believe.  Article of Faith, number 8 reads, 

   'We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is 
translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the 
Word of God.' 

   Upon returning home we began to examine the Book of Mormon with 
the Holy Bible to see if these things were true.  Were there no 
contradictions?  Is the Mormon doctrine 'correctly translating' 
the Word of God?  The answer to these two fundamental questions is 
examined below.  

   THE FALL OF MAN 

   What we found is that the Book of Mormon and the Holy Bible 
contradict each other starting in chapter 1 of Genesis.  We hadn't even 
gotten started and already we found a sinful contradiction in 
the Book of Mormon.  For we read in the Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi 2:18 
and 22-25, 

   "Wherefore, he said unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent who is the 
devil, who is the father of all lies, wherefore he said 'Partake of the 
forbidden fruit, and ye shall not die, but ye shall be as God, 
knowing good and evil...And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed 
he would not fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden.  
And all things which were created must have remained in the same state 
in which they were after they were created; and they must have 
remained forever, and had no end.  And they would have had no 
children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, 
having no joy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they 
knew no sin...Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might 
have joy." 

   
WHAT THE BOOK OF MORMON IS SAYING 

   Mormons and the Book of Mormon are saying, 

   1.  That man had no choice but to sin if we were to have babies and fill 
      the earth with humans.  In short, there would be no sex without the 
      fall.  
   2.  That without the fall, man had "no joy".
   3.  Without man sinning we could not do any "good" and would not have any 
      knowledge on how to grow into the image of God.  

   In summary, the book of Mormon is saying Adam fell that he might gain 
a wisdom on how to have babies with joy and to be able to do good.  

   WHAT MORMON's SAY 

   Upon investigating the theology of the Mormons we find them being in 
agreement with the book of Mormon and the 3 points listed above.  They 
state, 

   "Adam fell, but he fell in the right direction...toward the goal...he 
fell upward." -Sterling W.  Sill, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve 

   "It is necessary for man to learn by actual experience the 
difference between good and evil...He must feel the influence and 
power of death before he can appreciate eternal life.  He must 
comprehend the effects of sin before he can enjoy the rest 
promised to the faithful..." -The Plan of Salvation 

   It is easy to see that Mormons agree with the 3 points listed above.  

   THE IMAGE OF GOD 

   Not only does the Mormon doctrine teach that Adam and Eve could 
not have physical children before the Fall, (Moses 5:11), but that 
before the Fall we would have no opportunity to become as God, that 
is, to be a God ourselves.  We have been told by Mormons that the 
goal of every good Mormon man is to become a God himself, and 
the goal of every good Mormon wife is to become a goddess.  Together 
they will rule over their own earth.  They will be God to that earth.  
They say Satan was not lying when he said that they "would be like God".  
Indeed, for them to have the opportunity to be a God they must fall 
and then prove their worthiness by obeying the Mormon church.  So if 
all goes well they too will not only be in the image of God, they will 
be a God! 

   President Spencer W.  Kimball has said, "This progress toward 
eternal life is a matter of achieving perfection.  Living all 
the commandments (there are over 4300 in Mormonism) guarantees total 
forgiveness of sins and assures one of exaltation through 
that perfection which comes by complying with the formula the Lord 
gave us." It follows then, that if each of you can become a God, then 
God was human like us at one time too.  That He too had to obey the 
laws of godhood if He was to be exalted.  In fact, one of the favorite 
sayings within the Mormon church is..."As man is, God once was; and as 
God is, man may become." 

   The President of the Mormon Mission in England puts it this way: 
"As one of our great prophets and President of the Church has 
indicated, 'As man is, God once was; and as God is, man may become.' 
So you see why the Temple is so important to the LDS; because if he 
is worthy to go into the Temple and there receive the secret 
ordinances and covenants and keep them, he can eventually grow into 
becoming a god himself." -Dr.  Harold Goodman 

   Because the temptation and fall of man was such a blessing we now 
have the opportunity to become a god if we join the Mormon 
church.  Mormon President Spencer W.  Kimball whose picture is 
displayed in Salt Lake City Utah said in 1974, "In each of 
us is the potentiality to become a God - pure, holy, true, 
influential, powerful...Man can transform himself...he has in him the 
seeds of Godhood that can grow." To the Mormon, Satan is telling the 
truth when he says, "ye shall be as God." Is all this true?  Will the 
Holy Bible support the first teachings of Mormonism?  Have they 
"correctly translated the Bible"?  Are the Holy Bible and the Book of 
Mormon in agreement?  We were told to check it out and so we shall.  

   THE HOLY BIBLE 

   "Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the 
Lord God had made.  He said to the woman, 'Did God really say, `You 
must not eat from any tree in the garden?' The woman said to the 
serpent, 'We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden, but God did 
say, 'You must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of 
the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die." "You will 
not surely die," the serpent said to the woman.  'For God knows 
that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be 
like God, knowing good from evil." -Genesis 3:1-5 NIV 

   POINT #1 

   Remember point #1 of Mormon teaching?  "That man had no choice but to 
sin if we were to have babies and fill the earth." This cannot 
possibly be true! Adam and Eve knew "how" to be fruitful in 
producing babies.  For on the 6th day when God made Adam and Eve what 
did he tell them?  

   "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created 
him; ...male and female he created them.  God blessed them and said to 
them, 'Be fruitful and increase in number; fill the earth and subdue 
it...God saw all that he had made, and it was very good.  And there was 
evening, and there was morning-the 6th day." 
-Genesis 1:27-31 

   No fall of man had taken place yet, and God told them to "Be 
fruitful and increase".  Adam and Eve already had the knowledge of 
sexual reproduction otherwise God would be asking the impossible.  In 
fact, if you will read all of Genesis 1 you will find that things 
were already reproducing according to their "own kind" right after 
their creation.  Let us read in Genesis 1:11, 

   "Then God said, 'Let the land produce vegetation: seed-
bearing plants and trees on the land that bear fruit with seed 
in it according to their various kinds.' And it was so." 

   Already the vegetation and trees are reproducing, for God 
had given such wisdom to plants and trees when He made them saying, 
"seed-bearing"! In addition, when God first created birds and the 
creatures in the sea He said, 

   "God blessed them and said, 'Be fruitful and increase in number 
and fill the water in the seas, and let the birds increase on the 
earth." -Genesis 1:21 

   Now this all took place on the 4th and 5th days, a full day 
before man and woman were created by God.  A full day before Adam and 
Eve the birds and bees were already busy.  Yet Mormonism tells 
us that things would have "stayed the same for eternity".  That 
is, the same number of things would always be if the fall had not 
taken place.  Indeed, man knew how to make babies, the big difference 
was he was naked and intimate, but he felt no shame for his natural 
condition.  

   "The man and his wife were both naked, and they felt no shame." 
-Genesis 2:25 

   The only thing Satan brought was the twisted perspective that the 
way God had made things was shameful! To sinful man sex is not 
pleasurable unless it is shameful.  It is from this shameful desire 
for sex that polygamy and eternal maro and the 
ells adict each other starting in cMptuallu prehend the effec6Ghat7had not tfudam hable ut wits shameful! To sinful man sex isy".  That 
had g   the earth with humans.  In short, there would be no sex ort, there would be no s and menn howis the 
deaGod.  

   In summary, the  lit #  now e things wa how to make bÎwho is theIifference 
was he was nas shameful!pordingd increase ant to t asust not eat fr7ave "staye no sex ort,be ahadx weIit isence 
was he wd intimate, but only be in the image of God, they will 
be a God! 

   Procence, 
having no jlem?  

   n od from evil." -Genesis 3:1-5 NIV a thLIIIIIII^ight direction...toward the goal...he 
fell upward." -Sterlin5 Tempf man had tld be no sex ort, there would be no s and menn howis the 
OF GOˇ no s fall 
and then prove their worthiness by obeying the Mormon chen;issiong, and there was morningl good and evil...He must feel the influence and 
power l tha 
ear man had Iow to maknying not tmin saying Adam fellom on how to haveSAYING 

   Morhe Book of Moreci 
ells adict each other starting in cMptuallu sistan	oal...he 
, and 
the goal of every good Mormon wife is to become a goddesseIifference 
was he was nas shame:1-5 NIV after the big difrth.  theIGod first created birds a our great prophets and President of the Church has 
indicam?  

   "So God created man in his own i will read  saC inPresident of the Church has 
indicam?  EIs the MormoAêhe 3 points listed above.  They 
staDerekas 
indicam?  ˇood and evil...He must feel the influence and 
power l tha 
earon e.  He must 
comprehend the effects of sinsinsind theAM˛d that bear fruit with seed 
orhe Book of Morehemlrmon e 

   "I 
earon 
  
cr 
  
cr 
  
cr 
  
ul and increase".  Adam and EvILet us read in Genesis 1:11, 

   "Then God said, 'Let the landearon 
  
cr 
  
cr 
  
cCouard." -Sterling W.  Sill, Assistanu will find thatI of every good Mormon  © ut wits shamefnce auDaSterlinwilwheeir own earth.  They will
before the Fall we woulrmons agree with the 3 points 
indicated, 'As man is, God once was; anlrt,be ahadx weIll has saàÄn earth.5make ind tf the Church has 
indicam?  

   "So God created man in his own i will read  saC inPresident of the Church has 
indica of Mormonism?  Have they 
"correctade.  He said to the woman, 'Did God re®u will 
not surely die," the serpent sTheÊas God, that 
is, to be a God ourselves.  We have been told by Mormons that the 
goal of every good Mormon man is to become a God himself, and 
the goal of every good Mormon wife is to  
c witsrmons that the 
goal of every good Mormo 
goal of every good Mormon man is to become a God himselfhy to go inoly Bible support thereat 7then prove their worthiness bIf every good Mormo 
goal of every good Mormon Have they 
"c God   "So God cn eartheir worthinesll
before the Fall we woàl and increase".  Adam and Eve formula the Lord 
gave us." It follows then, that if each of youwouormon President Spencer Wy will 
be a God! 

   President SpencerLord 
ge Temple is so important to them and said toÌ 'As manFman, 'Did Gection.  Living irrecta the sIof th 

   "So God created man in his own i will read  saC inPresideh is..."As man is, GoLDS; because if he 
is worthyssu[mple and there receive the secret 
ordinances and covenants manFman00 in Mormonism) guarantees toVecome but he ft not eat fruit from g with the formula the Lord 
gave us." It follows then, that if each of you can become a God, then 
God was human like us at one time too.  That He too had to obey the 
laws of godhood if He was trmosihis wr fruit fr, was t God knowsdicam? eroducs wr their LDSs andPsalm 16d t be a God ourse3 be a Go3 we woàecauseve knew s 2:25 es.  Forantees ormol ite; fill Spencermol ite; fduc, 'Did Godd trees whene made themnd irds inomprshible supy tree in t Fond , 'Didmixsihisheir  madetoVein hiJesent AdamttoVecome'NO"r  madeegetatnditiNONE! -John 8:4nd td beesmoloe saids wr fattoVaron dwe now 
h GodwhemonoVerthere recranteesbegint eat g thes i to haveSAr  madThe womanVecome bu  madeege thfore Jesentint Adees wheVecome bucing wo  m g  madeGod 
 but not m g witave "stayedon dwe n! plants anhe 
ltartin toVe e. id Gect irds inomprr 
  ALL l LIE ForanteesDOWN TO BASICSoranteesWhem
  plants is..." -Stercasthe 
oand  Thnf th 
e thion.  L W.  miof th 
Morecie ldir whees whduc, 'Diddmust notful man sex hetimatjom thnd thmmefnce au" Thiss, f t-Il rari1ism2-15d tf evyoo.  Thawardllces and d  Thn, O no sex  lrmVarso wife is dawn! too.  Thale"?  W.asthdo had t wa how t,sex orho
evenil realace on nerLors! too.gs w plants wr hhow esicret 
asceearto d  Thn;ecret 
rat dimis weachng e sam and ErmVoducing,;ecret 
s Evtayachngdy 
staDmou had m 
idembo th 
staDutman  d heirswife is samandDmou h tht foret 
asceear 
 sam and topswife is clouds;ecret 
t themye ve LIKE
   MOST HIGH (yitaveed-bearing"! I).'Buucs whyssuthe serpdo had t wa gr Th,ad t wa depths knew how ps t
ells ad, 'Did God.asthdo had t wa depths knehow ps  dent oek to havnceeed 
in it "a the Lod tf thpris mefncea seriINT #1 
pi in
ltary to goill reade s but on!follows readpi in
come a Gingchris inr 
   Adamm." 

aring"! InForanteesollows rearoon
comw place.cdllcave th was; t witm." Mormo That 