
      TABLE OF CONTENTS

What's Going on in There?
About the Authors
Preface

PART 1

EXPLANATION AND COMMENTARY

Introduction

 Why work for the Dead?
 Mormon's Goal: To be a "Savior on Mount Zion" To Christians and Other 
 Lost Souls
 All Temples Would Close Without Genealogical Research
 Satan Always Trademarks His Wares
 The Holy Melchizedek Priesthood: the Only Authority to Act for God
 The Mormon Bible Contradicts Their Priesthood Claims
 Ordinances for the Living
 Ordinances for the Dead

An Overview of the Mormon Temple Ceremonies

 Pre-Initiatory Ordinances for the Dead
 Baptism for the Dead
 Confirmation as Mormons and the Holy Ghost
 Ordination to the Mormon Holy Melchizedek Priesthood

 Initiatory Ordinances for the Living and the Dead
 Washing in Water
 Anointing with Holy Oil
 Clothing in the Mystical Temple Garment
 The "New Name"
 The Ultimate Heresy -- Eternal Sexism

Preparation for the Endowment

 The Endowment Ceremony
 The Creation Drama
 The Garden of Eden Drama
 The Lone and Dreary World Melodrama
 The Christian Minister is Satan's Hireling Lackey
 The Terrestrial World Presentation
 The One and Only "True Order of Prayer"

 The "True Order of Prayer" Resembles Ancient Rituals
 The Veil of the Temple
 The Veil Ceremony
 The Five Points of Fellowship
 The Celestial Room

 Marriage for Time and Eternity
 Sealing of Children to Parents
 Proxy Sealing Sessions

 Summary of the Secrets of the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood
 Bestowed in the Endowment
 The Five Laws
 The Four Tokens (handclasps) - With Accompanying Names
 The Four Signs and Three Penalties
 The Oath of Vengeance Against the United States
 The Garment of the Holy Priesthood - Four Marks
 The Mormon Magic Talisman Protects From Evil Powers

 The Historical Origins of the Endowment
 The Faithful Must Be Buried in Their Temple Costume
 The Significance of Jesus and Christianity in the Temple Rituals
 Mormon Women Seek Glorious Joy in ETERNAL PREGNANCY
 The Endowment Attacks and Ridicules Paid Christian Clergymen, BUT Mormonism 
 Has Paid Clergymen (and women) Too!!
 Baptism for the Dead is From Twisting Scriptures
 Freemasonry in the Mormon Temple
 Masonic Symbols and Elements Used in the Temple Rituals
 Immorality and Sexual Activity in the Temple Rituals
 Half of Qualified Mormons Don't Participate
 Moroni Tells the World That Mormons Have "A Different Gospel"
 Poor Moroni -- He's Blowing the Wrong Tune
 The Purpose of God: Mormon vs. Christian
 Mormons Deserve to Know

PART II

THE TEMPLE CEREMONIES VERBATIM

The Pre-Initiatory Ordinances

 Baptism for the Dead
 Confirmation for the Dead
 Ordination for the Dead

The Initiatory Ordinances
 Preparation for Participation
 The Washing and Anointing Room
 Washing in Water
 Confirmation of Washing
 Anointing with Holy Oil
 Confirmation of Anointing
 Receiving the "Garment of the Holy Priesthood" and the "New Name"
 Preparation for the Endowment
 Entering the Endowment Room

The Endowment Ceremony

 Introduction and Instruction
 The Creation
 The First Day
 The Second Day
 The Third Day
 The Fourth Day
 The Fifth Day
 The Sixth Day
 The Garden of Eden
 The Law of Obedience
 The Law of Sacrifice
 The First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood
 The Lone and Dreary World
 Elohim Sends Down Messengers
 Elohim Sends Down Peter, James & John in Their True Characters
 Satan is Cast Out
 The Law of the Gospel
 The Robes of the Holy Priesthood
 The Terrestrial World
 The Law of Chastity
 The First Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, or Sign of the Nail
 The Law of Consecration
 The Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip, 
 of Sure Sign of the Nail
 Lecture Before the Veil
 The "True Order of Prayer"
 The Veil of the Temple
 The Instructions at the Veil
 Moving to the Terrestrial Room
 The Ceremony at the Veil
 The Celestial Room

Marriage or Sealing for Time and Eternity
 The Marriage Ceremony
 Sealing of Children to Parents
 Proxy Sealing Sessions

Conclusion

 List of Figures
 Acknowledgements
 Dedication

   WHAT'S GOING ON IN HERE?

   This booklet has been prepared to inform the general public,
including most Mormons, and especially the Body of Christians,
and to reveal to them of exactly what transpires during the
secret Mormon Temple Ceremonies.  Our purpose is not to ridicule,
but to shed light on these hidden things of darkness.  We
sincerely believe that Mormons and non-Mormons alike cannot
comprehend or accurately evaluate the complex Mormon gospel
without knowing what actually transpires inside of the Temple,
the place where the Keys of Knowledge necessary for exaltation
are imparted to LDS Gods in embryo.  We pray earnestly that this
information will be especially helpful in encouraging Christians
in their witness of the true Lord Jesus Christ to those lost in
the deception and bondage Mormonism.

      AUTHOR'S PREFACE

   This booklet contains the entire series of Mormon Temple
ceremonies, called "Ordinances" and is 100% accurate in the
essence of what is done, and very nearly 100% accurate in the
exact wording of what is said.  This is because this edition was
transcribed from a tape recording made inside the Temple at the
actual Endowment ceremony*.  Other ceremonies have been verified
by comparing them with copies of Temple Worker Instruction Books

*This booklet is purposely not copyrighted and may be copied or
used in any way deemed appropriate.

   The tape recording of the Mormon Temple Endowment from which
this booklet was transcribed was recorded in the Los Angeles
Mormon Temple.  The recording was made using a personal pocket
size tape recorder carried by one of the patrons during Endowment
presentation.

   The patron who made this recording entered the Temple using his
own personal Temple Recommend and carried his own Temple Veil
Worker's name tag and identification card during the ceremony.
He was greeted by several Temple Worker acquaintances who
obviously did not know of his excommunication from the Mormon
Church, which had been at his own request several months earlier.

   One of the objectives of this foray was to test the well known
Mormon claim of Divinely aided Temple security.  Another
objective was to provide and up-to-date and accurate text of the
Endowment.  (There have been many revisions to the Endowment text
in the past ten years, some of them significant).  Contrary to
popular belief of Mormons, not one person in the Temple appeared
the slightest bit spiritually or supernaturally alerted to the
presence among them of one whom they classify as an "apostate"
and a "son of perdition".  As he departed, the patron was
encouraged by a member of the Temple Presidency to return again
soon.

   Or similar authentic sources, making this the most accurate and
up to date rendition of these "secret" ceremonies ever published
in the 120 year history of Mormon Temple exposes.  The ceremonies
have been annotated and explanatory information included to help
the reader understand the activities as they progress.  Part one
contains background information and commentary, including a brief
overview of all of the ceremonies in sequence to prepare the
reader to understand the dialogue of the ceremonies.

   Even though we know that the Authorities of the Mormon church,
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City,
Utah, will be highly offended at the publication of this work, we
do not apologize for doing it.  As former Mormons and Temple
Workers who are now born again Christians, we acknowledge a great
responsibility to the unsuspecting world to expose and reprove
with exactness and the light of truth, precisely what activities
transpire inside the Mormon temples today.

   We heed the admonition of the Apostle Paul to the Ephesian
Saints, who had previously participated in similar pagan and
occultic rituals, "For ye were sometimes (once) darkness, but now
ye are light in the Lord, walk as children of light ...  and have
no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather
reprove (expose) them ...  for it is a shame even to speak of
those things which are done of them in secret.  But all things
that are reproved (exposed) are made manifest by the light."
(Ephesians 5:8, 11-13) We recognize that this is not the first
such "expose", but it is the most accurate and current account of
the activities of the Mormon temple "Endowment"ever published.
We wish to bring it to the attention of concerned people
everywhere so that they may be knowledgable concerning this, the
most sacred of all activities and teachings to the modern Mormon
(see John 18:20).  Mormonism cannot be fully understood by
Mormons or non-Mormons alike without an understanding these
Temple rituals - the "Keystone" of modern Mormon doctrine and
theology.

   Statistics released in January 1982, by qualified Mormon church
authorities indicated that at least three out of every four
Mormons (teenage and older) have never participated in these
rituals.  These non-participating Mormons have been subjected to
a variety of powerful propaganda from their leaders, impressing
upon them the sacred, holy, and enlightning nature of their
Temple "Ordinances", and the great blessings to be obtained
through them.  This booklet is intended especially for those non-
participating Mormons, to enable them to recognized the occultic,
non-Christian nature of these rituals, and to see them for them-
selves in the clear light of reality.  We are confident that
those who will prayerfully evaluate these rites for themselves
will be able to see them as they truly are, rather than
continuing in the naive belief that they are the sacred vehicle
essential to becoming a polygamous god, destined to rule over a
new planet for eternity.

   Mormons who regularly attend the Temple should also be very
interested in this booklet.  They will be "dying to find out" if
it really contains a "word perfect" rendition of all the Temple
rituals, and anxious to find a misplaced word so they can
criticize its accuracy.  We are pleased to give them the
opportunity, with a challenge to call to our attention any errors
they believe they detect.  We also challenge them to listen more
attentatively while attending the Temple, and to compare what
they hear with the Bible or the Book of Mormon, which teach an
entirely different Gospel and plan of salvation from that
presented in the Temple Endowment.

   Anyone who is familiar with the rite of Freemasonry will
recognize them as the primary source for the tokens, signs, and
penalties used in the Temple Endowment.  Much of the mystical
symbolism of Mormonism is also borrowed from Masonry.  The
symbolism and practices of the ancient pagan mystery religions
associated with nimrod and Babylon are also richly displayed in
the Mormon temple and reflected in the doctrines presented
therein.  Part one of this booklet contains commentary comparing
these Mormon rituals with those of other religions and
theologies, including Christianity.

   PART ONE - EXPLANATION AND COMMENTARY
   INTRODUCTON

   Mormon Temples are the most secret/sacred facet of Mormonism and
are completely different from neighborhood Mormon chapels.  Once
a new Temple is dedicated, no non-Mormons are ever allowed
inside.  Most Mormons are not permitted to enter the Temple
either.  Only Mormons who have passed stringent requirements of
worthiness determined by a penetrating private interview with
their Bishop, and then a second similar interview with their
Stake President, are issued a "Temple Recommend" which permits
them to enter the Temple (See figure 1).  Temple Recommends are
valid for one year after which the entire interview process must
be repeated to receive a new Recommend.  According to LDS church
leaders, less than 20% of adult Mormons have valid Temple Recom
mends and thus are qualified to attend the temple.  Less than 10%
of adult Mormons regularly attend the Temple.**

   Before a Mormon is issued his first Temple Recommend, he is
normally required to attend a course of study intended to
qualify him to "live worthy" or to become qualified to live LDS
standards of loyalty, dedication, financial contributions and
personal traits of worthiness.  Very little of the ceremonial
aspects, and none of the promises or penalties of the Temple
rituals are included in the ciriculum nor are these ever discus
sed at any time outside or inside of the Temple.  These are still
a mystery to the participants, who are acting on faith in Joseph
Smith and the Mormon church's divine authority.

   During a member's first participation in the Temple ceremony, he
"receives his own endowments" which means he attends to his own
personal salvation requirements.  In a special instruction ses
sion with all the initiates he is asked by the Temple President
to make a personal commitment to return to the temple often, at
least once per month, to renew his own commitment and to remind
him of his covenants while he is serving as a proxy for a

   **See the Church News supplement to the Salt Lake City Deseret
News, week of January 16, 1982, page 10 for very interesting
information on Mormon dedication to this "Keystone of their
religion."
deceased person to provide that person with Mormon salvation.  He
thus becomes a "Savior on Mount Zion" by acting in behalf of
someone who did not have this opportunity himself.

  WHY WORK FOR THE DEAD?

Mormons believe that everyone who lives and dies on this earth
goes to a place called the Spirit Prison, except faithful
Mormons, who go to Paradise.  Mormon Spirit Missionaries go down
from Paradise to the Spirit Prison and teach the Gospel of Joseph
Smith to the lost Christians and others there.  Those who accept
Mormonism must remain in prison until a worthy Mormon performs
certain essential rituals, called "Ordinances" for them in one of
the Mormon Temples.  Then they are released from Spirit Prison to
join the Mormons in Paradise.  Since these rituals or Ordinances
require a physical body to be washed, anointed, baptised, etc.,
they can only be performed by a living person in the place and
manner prescribed by Diety, acting under Universal (Mormon)
cosmic laws.

   MORMONS GOAL: TO BE A "SAVIOR ON MOUNT ZION"
   TO CHRISTIANS AND OTHER LOST SOULS

   The extent of the pressure upon worthy Mormons to return to the
Temple as often as possible to perform more of these proxy Temple
rituals is difficult to convey.  They are continually reminded of
their responsibility to all of the multitude of dead persons
waiting in "Spirit Prison" for their "work" to be done.  They
believe they are personally becoming "Saviors on Mount Zion" to
each individual for whom they perform these rites, and all of
those who accepted Mormonism will be waiting for them in
Paradise, to greet them and heap thanks and praise upon them for
having done this work in their behalf, which released them from
the "Spirit Prison".

   ALL TEMPLES WOULD CLOSE WITHOUT GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH

   The operation of all Mormon Temples is totally dependent upon
continuing genealogical research.  Mormons spend millions of
hours and scores of millions of dollars annually doing exhaustive
personal genealogical research to correctly identify their
deceased progenitors so that these secret ordinances can be
performed for them in one of the Temples.  Since they do not
provide enough names to keep the Temples busy, the church has a
massive "name extraction" program which provides the bulk of the
individuals for whom patrons serve as proxies.  Mormons spent
over ten million man hours, at approximately two and one half
hours per person, performing these rituals for the dead last
year.  The investment of the church in genealogical facilities,
equipment, and manpower is staggering to the imagination,
employing several thousand persons, plus even more volunteers,
and hundreds of millions of dollars invested.  Christian churches
kept nearly all of the early U.S.  and European vital records
which are used for genealogical research.  Therefore most Temple
work is being done to make dead Christians Mormons.  If your
Christian ancestors were West European, or settled in the U.S.  by
the early 1800's, they probably have been or soon will be made
Mormons in one of these Temples.  This unique doctrine and
practice of Mormonism attracts many converts to the church for
the sake of their unsaved, departed loved ones.

   Mormons are continually reminded that their own personal
exaltation, which is equivalent to a Christians salvation, is
dependent upon their "good works".  One of these essential works
is making certain that all of the Temple Ordinances are performed
for each one of their dead ancestors which they are able, through
all diligent effort, to identify and thus qualify to receive
them.  They are also responsible for doing this work for the
world's departed masses.  A lifetime of diligent church service
and good works is wasted if they neglect this responsibility to
provide these names, and perform these rituals for their dead.
Most mormons are not aware of the only New Testament references
to genealogy in Titus 3:9 and I Timothy 1:4, both of which
condemn it as foolishness and ungodly.

   SATAN TRADEMARKS HIS WARES

   In Anton LeVeh's Satanic Bible, under "Infernal Names", "Mormon"
is listed as "God of the ghouls", which are the living dead.  His
consort is "Hecate - Goddess of the underworld and witchcraft";
his followers are known as MORMONS.  With the Mormon pre-
occupation with ancestor research and work for the dead in their
Temples, one has to question whether this is an amazing
coincidence, or one of Satan's brash signals to the wary.  Mormon
Missionaries in Hong Kong must use caution because 'Mormon' means
"Gates of Hell" in Chinese, another amazing coincidence, or
brash danger signal.  Satan, the supreme egotist, always
trademarks his products; let the proselyte beware.

  THE HOLY MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD:
  THE ONLY AUTHORITY TO ACT FOR GOD

   Mormons claim sole custody of the "Holy Melchizedek Priesthood"
described in the book of Hebrews.  All activities of the Mormon
church function under the direction and authority of this
supposed Priesthood.  Mormons claim theirs is the only authority
to act for God in the entire universe, and aggressively dispute
Roman Catholic and Masonic claims to this same Priesthood.  The
Temple Rituals are called the "Higher Ordinances of the
Malchizedek Priesthood, as do all the other church auxilliary
organizations.

   Mormons claim to trace their "Priesthood Authority" directly to
Jesus much like they trace their ancestry through genealogy.
Every Mormon Priesthood holder has his personal "Line of
Authority" documented, and when he performed an ordinance such as
baptism, it is customary for him to present a printed copy of
this "Priesthood Lineage" to the person receiving the ordinance.
This Priesthood is bestowed upon all male members over 18 years
of age who have shown their "worthiness" by good works and
faithfulness to the Mormon Church.  They receive it by "Laying on
of hands" by men who have received their Priesthood in the same
way, thus extending this "Line of Authority".  This line is
always traced back through Brigham Young, Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdry, and the Apostles Peter, James and John, who supposedly
brought it to Joseph and Oliver directly from Jesus Christ.

   THE MORMON BIBLE CONTRADICTS THEIR PRIESTHOOD CLAIMS

   Mormons use only the authorized King James Version of the Bible
in their Missionary work and worship services.  Joseph Smith's
"Inspired Version", which belongs to the Reorganized LDS church,
contains many substantive changes to the King James text.  It is
intentionally shielded by the Utah Mormon church from public
discussion and exposure, though it is used selectively in their
teachings.  The Mormon church prints and widely uses its own King
James Version containing special Mormon study guides, reference
sections, and the official LDS church name and insignia.  Reading
in this official Mormon King James Missionary Bible, 1968
edition, in Hebrews, concerning the resurrected Lord and these
Priesthoods, we find that it says Jesus in NOW the sole and only
holder of the Melchizedek Priesthood, and that the Aaronic
Priesthood has been forever abolished.  It states, "But this man
(Jesus), because he continueth ever, hath and unchangeable
priesthood." (Hebrews 7:24) The footnote for 'unchangeable'
states: "or, which passeth not from one to another* (Author's
emphasis).  The original Greek word, aparabatos, used here means
"perpetually non-transferable" or "Untransferable forever." How
can Mormons continue passing it on anyway? By simply ignoring
their own Bible!! Since they believe it is only true as far as
translated correctly, and the Book of Mormon says it is full of
errors and ommission,they can easily ignore what they don't like.
Please read Hebrews chapters 7 and 8 to understand how completely
defiant of God's word the Mormon Priesthoods really are.

*This marginal note has been removed from the latest edition
Missionary Bible.

   ORDINANCES FOR THE LIVING

   The Ordinances for living Mormons include Washing, Anointing,
Clothing in the Garment of the Holy Priesthood, and the Endow
ment.  Sealings are performed for married couples, and minor
children are then Sealed to parents.  Marriages are performed for
time and eternity, and under special circumstances, marriages for
time only.  These ceremonies account for less than 2% of all
Temple Ordinances performed.

   ORDINANCES FOR THE DEAD

   The ordinances for the deceased ancestors of members or names of
deceased persons provided by the temple from genealogical records
include Baptism, Confirmation of membership in the Mormon Church,
and Ordination to the Holy Melchizedek (Mormon) Priesthood for
males.  All the ordinances described above for the living must
also be performed for each of the dead persons who are post
humously receiving their "Temple Blessings".  Over 98% if the
Ordinances performed are for the dead by a living Mormon proxy.
The writer performed approximately 150 Endowments for deceased
relatives and many other identified persons known to the writer,
as part of over 1000 Ordinances performed in a nearly ten year
period.

   AN OVERVIEW OF THE MORMON TEMPLE CEREMONY

   This information is new to most of the readers of this booklet
and may be difficult to grasp at times, therefore, we have pre
pared the following overview of these Temple Ceremonies to let
you preview the activities and to concisely present the important
elements to you.

   Mormons attending the Temple are called "patrons" by the Temple
staff, and will therefore be similarly designated hereafter in
this publication.  Quotation marks enclose direct quotes from the
ceremony.

   THE PRE-INITIATORY ORDINANCES OR RITUAL

   The "Pre-Initiatory Ordinances" or rituals are those that are
performed only for the dead in the Temple.  Living Mormons
receive these Ordinances in their local Ward or Stake organiza
tions.

   BAPTISM

   Baptism is the first ceremony performed in behalf of the dead in
the Temple.  This is performed in the beautiful baptismal font
mounted on the statues of 12 full sized oxen, located in the
Temple basement.*(See figure 2) The Officiator and the patron
are in the font dressed in heavy white jump-suits.  There are two
or more Witnesses observing the procedure.  Often a closed cir
cuit T.V.  is used to project the names of the deceased persons on
a large T.V.  screen.  Typically 200-300 baptisms are performed
per hour, with LDS teenagers serving as proxies to introduce them
into the Temple rituals and vicarious Ordinance work at an
impressionable age.  The baptismal pronouncement is recited in
full for each baptism, and the patron is completely immersed by
the Officiator as observed and approved by the two Witnesses.

   CONFIRMATION AS MORMONS AND THE HOLY GHOST

   The next ritual is Confirmation for the Dead.  This makes the
deceased person a member of the Mormon church and gives him the
Holy Ghost.  This is usually performed at or near the baptismal
font, by the same persons who performed the baptism ritual.  Two
or more Temple Workers place their hands on the patron's head
while one pronounces the confirmation.

   ORDINATION TO THE MORMON HOLY MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD

   The ordination of dead males to the Mormon "Holy Melchizedek
Priesthood" is usually(but not always) performed in the same area
of the Temple by the same proxy.  A patron may not receive a proxy
Ordinance which he has not received for himself.  Therefore LDS
teenagers who have not yet received this Ordination may not
perform this Temple Ordinance, and adult male patrons must
receive this by proxy.  This is often performed in conjunction
with the Initiatory Ordinances described next.  Other Temple
Workers perform this Ordinance following the Baptism and Confir
mation.  Two Temple Workers lay their hands upon the patron's
head and one of them pronounces the Ordination.

   *All Mormon Temples from Nauvoo, Illinois in 1842 to the twenty
presently operating Temples have or had baptismal fonts as
described, always located below ground level, as Joseph Smith
instructed (Doctrine & Covenants 128:13).  It appears that the
new generation of Temples presently under construction or
planned, will abandon this "prophetic directive".  Plans for
these Temples show baptismal fonts above ground level with only
six oxen in a semi-circle supporting them.  See Church News,
January 16, 1982, page 14.

   INITIATORY ORDINANCES OR RITUAL

   WASHING IN WATER

   Each patron is ceremonially washed so that he "may become clean
from the blood and sins of this generation." A Temple Worker wets
his fingers in running water and touches each member of the
patrons body as he pronounces a blessing upon it.  Women Temple
Workers wash female patrons, and men wash men.  The worker starts
at the top of the patron's head and works down to the feet,
reaching under the shield to touch shoulders, back, breast,
vitals and bowels, and loins.  The washing is sealed by two
workers laying their hands on the patron's head and pronouncing
the sealing.

   ANOINTING WITH HOLY OIL

   Each patron is then anointed with consecrated oil preparatory to
"becoming a King and a Priest (or a Queen and Priestess) unto the
Most High God, hereafter to rule and reign in the House of Israel
forever." A Temple Worker pours some drops of oil on the top of
the patron's head and moistens his fingers in oil and then
touches each member of the patron's body as he pronounces a
blessing upon it, reaching under the shield to anoint shoulders,
back, breast, vitals and bowels, and loins.  Two workers then
place their hands in the patron's head and one of them pronounces
a sealing of the anointing.

   CLOTHING IN THE MYSTICAL TEMPLE GARMENT

   The patron is then dressed in the "Garment of the Holy
Priesthood" as a Temple Worker gives him special instructions
regarding the constant wearing of it 24 hours per day throughout
his life: "It will be a shield and a protection to you from the
power of the destroyer until you have finished your work on the
earth, providing you do not defile it, but are true and faithful
to your covenants." The worker also gives instructions regarding
the secret "New Name" and then whispers the "New Name" to the
patron.

   THE "NEW NAME"

   A Mormon's most secret and cherished possession should be his
"new name" which he receives during the Temple Rituals.  This is
the name by which he "will be called forth on the morning of the
First Resurrection" by his God, and by which he will be known
throughout Eternity.  He receives this from a Temple Worker, in a
whisper, as he is being helped into his new "magic underwear" for
the first time, during his Temple initiation.  Each time he
returns to do Temple work he will go through these same rituals
for a dead person, whose name he will carry through the entire
ceremony on a little slip of paper, which he surrenders to the
Introducer at the Temple Veil, before he enters the Celestial
Room.  On these return visits he will normally by-pass the
"Washing, Annointing, and Clothing in the Garment of the Holy
Priesthood" rituals, and just receive the "New Name" in a little
booth as he leaves the locker room on his way to the theatre type
Endowment Rooms.  The "New Name" is usually Biblical, such as
Abraham, Moses, Seth, or Mary, Martha, Naomi, or they come from
the Book of Mormon.  Many Mormons are not aware that every person
attending the Endowment on a particular day receives the same
male or female "new name", or its alternate.  The alternate is
given when the first given name of the person receiving the
Endowment, deceased or alive, (not the proxy) is the same, or
sounds very similar to the "new name".  My son and I share the
same "new name" of Enoch with the prophet Joseph Smith Jr.  and
probably millions of other living and dead Mormons.  I often
wondered how we would know which "Enoch" was being called forth,
or if we would all be judged together enmasse.

   THE ULTIMATE HERESY - ETERNAL SEXISM

   A Mormon husband must know his wife's (or wives') "new name(s)".
He normally learns this by representing the Lord behind the Veil,
and taking his wife through the Veil Ceremony when she is
receiving her own Endowments.  She is not allowed to know his
"new name" under any circumstances.  This is because the Lord
calls forth only the Priesthood holder, and it is up to him to
call forth his wives, if he wants them, or leave them behind if
he doesn't want some of them.

   PREPARATION FOR THE ENDOWMENT

   The patron returns to the locker room, removes the shield and
dresses of the Temple Garment, in the white Temple attire; pants,
shirt, belt, tie, socks and slippers, or slip, dress, hose and
slippers.  He then takes his name slip and the package containing
his robe, girdle (sash), hat (veil for women), and bright green
fig-leaf apron with him through the beautiful foyer, up the
magnificent circular staircase, and into the theatre type
Endowment Room.  He is seated by the Officiator who presides over
the presentation, women on the left, men on the right, and waits
in profound silence for the ceremony to begin.  Absolute silence
is maintained for up to 20 minutes while the company is
assembling.

   THE ENDOWMENT CEREMONY

   The Endowment is a two hour drama-ritual-ceremony presented to
groups of patrons, rather than individually, as most of the other
rituals are done.  It is performed in beautiful theatre type
rooms, where walls are covered with floor to ceiling murals
depicting appropriate scenes.  The performance is a basic 19th
century melodrama, with Lucifer as the villian, Elohim as the
hero, and Adam and Eve as the victims.  Supporting roles are
played by the Apostles Peter, James and John, a Christian
Minister, Jehovah, and the arch-angel Michael (who becomes Adam).
All of the secret names, signs, tokens, penalties, the "True
Order of Prayer", and the Veil Ceremony are incorporated into the
dramatic performance, with some audience participation, and a
"Witness Couple" participating as representatives of the entire
audience.  The patrons are tested by the Lord, and must
individually demonstrate their knowledge of the secrets in order
to complete the ritual.  For over a century, live actors played
the various roles with interesting props and costumes.  Now all
Temples have changed to a motion picture and tape recording
presentation in which the Officiator, who presides over the
presentation, rarely speaks.  Several Temple Workers are present
during the performance to administer the secret elements named
above, and to help patrons don and change the special robes and
other attire, where needed.  Before the movie version, the
patrons move enmasse to four differently muralled rooms to
receive the various portions of the rituals.  Now they stay in
one room for approximately one and one-half hours, watching the
film or the Officiator as he pantomimes the tape recording.  The
Endowment can be divided into four "acts" according to the four
rooms previously used: the Creation drama, the Garden of Eden
drama, the Lone and Dreary World drama, and the Terrestrial World
presentation.

   THE CREATION DRAMA

   This can best be described as a consciousness lowering, mood
altering experience.  The movie shows hypnotic type scenes of
volcanoes and lava flows, ocean, animal and flower scenes, as the
dialog drones through a very monotonous and repititious descrip
tion of the first five creative periods.  Elohim, the head God,
sends his agents, Jehovah and Michael (the arch-angel) down to do
all the creative work, but one day at a time.  He requires that
they return each day and give him a report of their activities,
and receive further instructions, because he is a man with a
body, and cannot tell what they are doing, nor see or hear beyond
normal distances.  Many patrons are asleep, and most are drowsy
at the completion of this act.

   THE GARDEN OF EDEN DRAMA

   Elohim actually comes down to earth with Jehovah to create bodies
for Michael, who becomes Adam, and Eve.  Adam and Eve are placed
in the garden by Elohim, are tempted by Lucifer, and Eve secumbs
and eats the forbidden fruit.  Eve convinces Adam to partake
also, then recognizes who Lucifer really is.  Lucifer instructs
Adam and Eve to make fig-leaf aprons to cover their nakedness
when they hear Elohim and Jehovah coming.  All the patrons don
bright green fig-leaf aprons with Adam and Eve, which they
continue to wear over all of Elohim's Priesthood attire
throughout the remainder of the rituals.  Elohim is outraged, and
curses Lucifer, who according to LDS doctrine will never have a
body, to crawl on his belly and eat dust forever.  Lucifer defys
him to his face, and ignores his curse throughout the following
scenes.  He is cast out, then Adam and Eve are cast out with him,
to join him, but only after they make a secret covenant with
Elohim, and receive a secret token (handgrip), with its name,
sign and penalty (blood/death oath).

   THE LONE AND DREARY WORLD MELODRAMA

   Upon arrival in the lone and dreary world, which is the world in
which we now live, Adam "builds an altar and offers up prayer."
Lucifer answers, instead of Elohim, affirming that he is "the God
of this world," and the drama develops its conflicts, around this
altar scene.  Lucifer's claim to be "the God of this world" is
never challenged or denied by Adam, Eve, or Elohim's agents.

   THE CHRISTIAN MINISTER IS SATAN'S HIRELING LACKEY

   Lucifer employs a Christian Minister as his hireling lackey to
confuse, deceive, and destroy all mankind along with Adam and
Eve.  He preaches to them a comical perversion of the 3rd century
Nicean Creed, which Adam rejects, employing sarcasm and ridicule
to develop audience contempt, but without hissing or booing, as
was done in prior decades.  The Apostles Peter, James and John
are sent by Elohim to rescue Adam and Eve, and the hireling
Minister deserts Lucifer and joins them after Peter discloses
Lucifer's true identity.  He embraces Mormonism with Adam and Eve
and is saved, along with the patrons in the audience, while
Lucifer is cast out.  Jehovah, whom Mormons have told outside of
the Temple is really Jesus, has been relegated to the role of
messenger boy between Elohim and his new agent team of Peter,
James and John.

   THE TERRESTRIAL WORLD PRESENTATION

   Adam, Eve, and the patrons advance to the Terrestrial World,
where they are put under covenant by Peter, James and John to
obey several more laws, and taught their accompanying Priesthood
tokens, names,signs and penalties, along with being clothed in
the Robes of the Holy Priesthood (see figures 8-10), and being
taught "The True Order of Prayer."

   THE ONE AND ONLY "TRUE ORDER OF PRAYER"

   The only "live entertainment" in the Endowment is the True Order
of Prayer After all of the secrets have been received (except
the one learned only at the veil), all the temple clothing has
been put on, then taken off and put on again differently, and the
ritual activities are completed, the patrons enjoy sitting and
watching something different.  (The patrons have stood up and sat
down approaching 20 times since the Endowment started).

   The Officiator calls the Witness Couple and seven or eight other
couples to come forward and form a circle around the altar.
Those in the circle then proceed to follow the Officiator in
performing all of the names, signs, and penalties of the tokens
of the Priesthoods which they have previously received.  Then
they form the "True Order of Prayer".  The sisters all veil their
faces (in the audience also).  Then each couple in the circle
joins right hands in the Patriarchal Grip and everyone raises
their left arms to the square and rests their left elbow on the
person next to them.  The Officiator carefully checks everyone's
position ...  then kneels at the altar and offers a prayer, which
all those in the circle repeat, one phrase at a time.  (this is
the first time the patrons hear the Officiator's voice.  He has
been pantomiming the tape recording during all of the prior
twenty minutes of the ceremony since the movie ended).

   The prayer is usually long and quite involved, covering many
subjects from the prophet's health to the patron's safe return
home.  It opens, as all Mormon prayers do, addressed to "Heavenly
Father", and closes "in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." The
patrons in the circle repeat the "Amen" and are instructed to
return to their seats.

   THE "TRUE ORDER OF PRAYER" RESEMBLES ANCIENT RITUAL

   Prayer circles around Altars, doing very much the same sort of
ritualistic activities, are described in the Egyptian Coptic
Gnostic writings recently first published in English.  These were
a continuation of the ancient Egyptian pagan rituals performed
for centuries before the birth of Jesus.  This most certainly was
another Gospel, a very strange occultic one, from that which the
Apostles preached in the New Testament (see Galatians 1:8,9).
Dr.  Hugh Nibley and other mormon scholars speak of these pagan
ceremonies as if they validated the Endowment, when they actually
demonstrate the pagan nature and foundation of the Temple
rituals.

   THE VEIL OF THE TEMPLE

   The climactic conclusion to the Endowment if the Veil Ceremony in
which each patron is tested by a Veil Worker, who represents the
Lord behind the Veil, for his knowledge of the four tokens and
their names, which were given to him during the Endowment.  The
Veil is a seven foot high by three foot wide ivory colored fabric
panel hung on a beautifully finished hardwood framework (see
figure 4).  It has seven "Marks of the Holy Priesthood" in it
which correspond to the four marks in the patron's Priesthood
Temple undergarment.  Three of these Veil marks are sewn in the
form of openings which are large enough for hands or arms to pass
through.  Between each pair of Veil segments is a curtained
opening through which the patron is conducted after he
successfully completes the testing.  The Veil is located at the
front of the Terrestrial Room, representing the Terrestrial
(where almost all Christians and nearly all Mormons will
supposedly spend eternity), and separates it from the Celestial
Room, representing the Celestial Kingdom, where those who
successfully keep all of the Mormon commandments will go to
become Gods over their own planets.  Thus the patron gains
entrance to the Celestial Room by passing the testing conducted
by the Lord at the Veil.  Unfortunately for them, no Mormon is
successfully keeping all of the commandments required for
entrance into their Celestial Kingdom.

   There are approximately 60 Veil segments in the Los Angeles
Temple, equally divided between men and women.  The Veil is
perhaps the most important object in the Temples, and was used
over four million times last year alone.  The veil of the Hebrew
Temple was rent in twain from top to bottom at the time of Jesus'
crucifixion, thus destroying its function (Matthew 27:51).
Jesus' atonement ended the need and purpose of the Temple forever
(Hebrews 9:11-17).  The Veil of the Hebrew Temple had only one
opening and was only opened once each year by the one and only
High Priest to enter for a specific ritual performed on behalf of
all Israel and then to return through it (Hebrews 9:6-7).  Over
four million Mormon Temple patrons, mostly women but including
hundreds of thousands of High Priests, WORKED their way through
their Temple Veil to provide vicarious exaltation for dead
people.  They did nothing on the other side, an did not return
through it as the Hebrew High Priesthood, yet Mormons speak of
their Temple as a restoration of the one in Solomon's Hebrew
Temple.  They rarely mention any claims of specific similarities,
or the very many obvious differences.

   THE VEIL CEREMONY

   The Veil Ceremony is the Patron's principle opportunity to
participate in this two hour ritual.  A Veil Worker represents
the Lord behind the Veil, and an Introducer presents the patron
to the Lord and coaches him through his lines and actions if
necessary.  The Lord reaches through and opening in the Veil to
take his hand in the various grips or tokens and asks him
specific questions through the Veil.  His answers must be word
perfect.  The culmination of this examination is the name of the
Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip,
or Sure Sign of the Nail, which is given to the patron only
through the Veil, while embracing the Lord in the Five Points of
Fellowship.

   THE FIVE POINTS OF FELLOWSHIP

   "The Five Points of Fellowship are inside of right foot by the
side of right foot, knee to knee, breast to breast, hand to back,
and mouth to ear." The patron and the Veil Worker both reach
their left arm through the appropriate mark in the Veil, while
holding right hands in the Patriarchal Grip, and embracing each
other, maintaining strong contact at all the points indicated
with the Veil separating them, while the Veil Worker gives the
name of the token to the patron and the patron repeats it back
vebatim.  The name of the token is, "Health in the navel, marrow
in the bones, strength in the loins and sinews.  Power in the
Priesthood be upon me, and upon my posterity through all
generations of time, and throughout all eternity." This is a
form of incantation similar to various Witchcraft, Voodoo, or
Black Magic incantations in use for centuries before Joseph Smith
developed his Endowment.  Many women patrons are seriously
agitated and disturbed by this procedure through the Veil.  Since
the Veil Workers are all men, they tend to put the blame on the
men for being overly familiar or enthusiastic in this embrace.
Since the women tend to be more sensitive and perceptive, I
believe they are often spiritually disturbed by the overtly
occultic mystical demonic power that is being invoked in this
incantation.  This probably significantly contributes to why less
than ten percent of those Mormons who are eligible actually
attend the Temple regularly, while nearly triple that number have
been through this experience once.  After the patron repeats this
incantation vebatim, calling these spiritist powers down upon
himself and his posterity for eternity, he is ushered into the
beautiful, etherial Celestial Room, as the climax and reward for
his perserverance and performance.

   THE CELESTIAL ROOM

   The Celestial Room is a very large, elegantly decorated and
furnished sitting room.  It has no function or purpose except
that patrons may stand or sit for a few minutes to wait for
spouse, friends, or associates to come through the Veil.
Conversation is permitted only in quiet whispers.  This is the
only opportunity a Mormon ever has to ask a question about the
Temple ceremonies.  It is supposed to be a place to meditate, or
seek answers to problems or inspiration.  In actual practice,
however, patrons are not permitted to remain in the Celestial
room for more than a few minutes.  Rarely is anyone available to
answer any questions or discuss a problem.  It is very business
like an efficiently operated, like a production line.

   Patrons move from the Celestial room out a side door and back
downstairs to the locker room, still wearing all the Temple
clothing.  There the patron removes his Temple attire, puts on
his normal clothing, and is free to leave at his leisure.  There
is a comfortable waiting room near the entrance where he may
await spouse and friends.

   TEMPLE MARRIAGE FOR TIME AND ETERNITY

   A typical Temple contains from six to twenty Sealing Rooms where
marriages and Sealings are performed for the living and the dead.
Sealings are performed for couples already married, living or
dead, to extend their marriage to eternity.  On a typical spring
Saturday in Los Angeles from 60 to 100 marriages and Sealings may
be performed, mostly for young couples.  The Sealing Rooms are
elegantly furnished and decorated (See figure 5).  The walls are
lined with formal dining room type chairs and a beautiful altar
is in the center.  Two opposing walls are covered with solid
mirrors so that one can seem to see "for Eternity" in both
directions.  The Officiator for this ceremony is a Temple Sealer,
who is called to this position because he is considered an
especially "Spiritual" person.

   The room is often filled with many friends and family of the
wedding couple, who must also have valid Temple Recommends, who
have come to be with them, all dressed in white Temple clothing.
It is an impressive ceremony.  There were approximately 40 dearly
beloved friends at the Sealing of my wife and three teenage
children to myself one year and six days after our Baptism.  (It
is the order of the Priesthood that wife (or wives) and children
are sealed to the Priesthood holder).  Though we were dazed and
perplexed by the rush of confusing activities that had taken
place during a period of sever hours preceeding it, at the
completion of that brief climaxing ceremony we truly felt
blessed.  With this capacity crowd of joyful well wishers
encouraging us, we truly felt a wonderful bond of family
togetherness envelop us.  It is an event I will never forget.  We
thought we had achieved a wonderful goal through sustained
sacrifice, dedication and hard work.  The promises bestowed were
glorious beyond understanding, and it felt worthwhile and
rewarding.  The support and fellowship of all those beloved
friends who were there just for us was a very significant factor
in the good feelings we had, for without them it would all have
been a mass of confusion and senseless rituals.

   5 LAWS- All Temple patrons covenant and promise to keep and live
by these five laws of the Endowment.

   1 - Law of Obedience- Wives agree to obey their husbands in
righteousness, and husbands, in turn agree to obey the law of
Elohim and keep his commandments.

   2 - Law of Sacrifice- All agree to give everything they have,
including their lives, if necessary, to the building up of the
Kingdom of God.

   3 - Law of the Gospel- All agree to obey the Law of the Gospel,
and to avoid lightmindedness, loud laughter, evil speaking of the
Lord's annointed, the taking of the name of God in vain, and
every other unholy and impure practice.

   4 - Law of Chastity- All agree that they shall have no sexual
intercourse except with their legal and lawful husband or wife
(or wives).

   5 - Law of Consecration- All agree to consecrate their time,
talents, and everything with which the Lord has blessed them or
will bless them to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, for the building up of the Kingdom of God and the
establishment of Zion (the Mormon Church).

   4 TOKENS (HANDCLASPS) - WITH ACCOMPANYING NAMES - Temple
participants each receive these four secret tokens or handclasps
with accompanying secret names, signs, and penalties.

   1 - The First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood: Is given by
clasping the right hands together and by placing the joint of the
thumb over the first knuckle of the hand.  Its name is the NEW
NAME you received in the temple this day (The 'New Name' is
usually Biblical, and is the same for everyone on a given day,
i.e., every male who goes to the temple on the third of the month
will receive the name "Abraham".  The name of the First Token of
the A.P., then, would be "Abraham").

   2 - The Second Token of the Aaronic Priesthood: Is given by
clasping right hands together and by placing the joint of the
thumb between the first and second knuckles of the hand.  The
name of this token is your given name (If you are Elmer Jones the
name of the token would be "Elmer", and if you were Sadie Jones
it would be "Sadie").

   3 - The First Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or Sign of the
Nail: Is executed by bringing your right hand forward in a
vertical position, fingers close together, thumb extended, and
the person giving the token placing the tip of the forefinger in
the center of the palm with the thumb on the back of the hand.
The name of this token in "The Son".

   4 - The Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the
Patriarchal Grip, or Sure Sign of the Nail: Is given by clasping
right hands and interlocking little fingers, and placing the
index finger of the right hand on the center of the wrist.  The
name is "Health in the navel, marrow in the bone, strength in the
loins and in the sinews, power in the priesthood be upon me and
upon my posterity through all generation of time and throughout
all eternity".

   4 SIGNS AND 3 PENALTIES

   1 - The Sign and Penalty of the First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood Is made by bringing the right arm to the square, the
palm of the hand forward, the fingers close together, and the
thumb extended.  The penalty is executed by placing the right
thumb under the left ear, palm down, fingers close together.  The
thumb is drawn quickly across the throat to the right ear and the
hand dropped to the side.  This signifies having your throat slit
from ear to ear and your tongue torn out by its roots.*

   2 - The Sign and Penalty of the Second Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood Is made by bringing the right hand in front of you,
the hand in cupping shape, the right arm forming a square, and
the left arm is raised to the square.  The penalty is executed by
placing the right hand on the left breast, and drawing the hand
quickly across the chest, then dropping both hands to the sides.
This signifies having your chest ripped open and your heart and
vitals torn out and fed to the beasts of the field and the fowls
of the air.*

   3 - The Sign and Penalty of the First Token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood is made by bringing the left hand forward, the hand
in cupping shape, the left arm forming a square.  The right hand
is brought forward, the palm down, fingers close together, and
the thumb extended.  The thumb is placed over the left hip.  The
penalty is executed by drawing the thumb quickly across the body
and dropping both hands to the sides.  This signifies having your
body cut asunder and your bowels gush out upon the ground.*

   4 - The Sign of the Second Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood
(no penalty is mentioned) Is made by raising both hands high
above the head, palms forward, fingers close together, and
lowering the hands to the side three times while repeating aloud
the words, 'PAY LAY ALE, PAY LAY ALE, PAY LAY ALE.' They are
told this means, "Oh God, hear the words of my mouth" in the
Adamic language.

   *Up until the 1930's the penalties were plainly stated as
indicated.  The patron was agreeing or covenanting that if he or
she revealed these secrets, the Mormon elders would very
literally take them and execute the penalties upon them.  This is
known as "blood atonement", and is still a doctrine of the Church
today.

   *The significance of the penalties is no longer explained to the
patrons as plainly as it was in former days.  Today it is
described as "various ways in which life may be taken." As the
patron is executing the morbid gesture of the penalty, he is
affirming that rather than reveal the secret token, name, sign
and penalty, he would "suffer his life to be taken."

   IMMORALITY AND SEXUAL ACTIVITY IN THE TEMPLE RITUAL

   Numerous stories have been circulated of all manner of sexual
activities, indecent exposure, polygamous marriages, marital
intercourse, etc., taking place as part of the Temple rituals.
We want to unequivically and emphatically state that none of
these are true.  There is no overt sexual activity, immoral or
otherwise, contained within the rituals or otherwise conducted
within the Mormon Temples, although there are numerous
similarities between ancient pagan fertility rites and Mormon
Temple rituals.  We do not believe that polygamous marriages are
knowingly being performed within the Temples today.  Since
polygamy is still an essential element of Mormon doctrine, and
still very much alive in Utah, we realize that some Mormon
dishonestly obtain polygamous marriage through Mormon Temples by
concealing the truth of their intentions.

   THE GARMENT OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD

   4 MARKS -

   Every Mormon who "receives his Endowments" (including all Mormon
Missionaries) is dressed by a temple worker in the "garment of
the holy priesthood" which he is required to wear 24 hours a day,
365 days a year, until he is buried in it.  It is removed only to
bathe and change them, and for certain "public appearance"
exceptions.  Most of these have the appearance of old-fashioned
"long johns".

   Closer examination reveals a pair of botton-holes over the right
breast sewn in the form of a square, reminding the Mormon of
exactness and honor in living up to his temple vows.  Over the
left breast a pair of botton-holes in the form of a compass,
remind the Mormon that all truth may be circumscribed into one
great whole, and that all appetites must be kept within certain
bounds.  One button-type hole over the navel, recalls the need
of nourishment for body and soul, and an identical hole over the
right knee, signifies that every knee shall bow, and every tongue
confess that Jesus is the Christ.  In the early Mormon Temple
ceremonies some of the marks were cut into the garment with a
small knife while on the patron's body, thus knicking his flesh
and shedding his blood into the garment.  See Leviticus 19:28,
21:5, Deuteronomy14:1, and Jeremiah 16:6.  The same four marks
are on the veil of the temple in much larger dimensions.  The
Temple Worker tells the patron, as he or she is being dressed in
this garment, that "it will be a shield and a protection to you
from the power of the destroyer until you have finished your work
on the earth, so long as you are true and faithful to the
covenants you make in the temple this day."

   The garment has thus become a magic talisman to the Temple
patron, and is to be his source of protection from the power of
Satan throughout his lifetime.  The patron is instructed that,
when the garment is worn out, he must cut the priesthood markings
off of it and burn them.  The garment then can be used for rags
or any other purpose.  Thus we see that the magical "power" in in
the Priesthood markings.  The Christian is taught that his
protection from Satan comes in a much different form from this
Priestcraft occultic talisman magic.  Christians, in overcoming
Satan's attacks, are to put on something more substantial than
magic underwear with Masonic markings.  It is fully explained in
Ephesians 6:12-18, and we highly recommend this form of
protection to all readers.

   MASONIC SYMBOLS AND RITES USED IN THE MORMON TEMPLE

   In spite of vehement denials to the contrary, there is a direct
link between the rites, symbols, signs, handclasps and penalties
of the Masonic Lodge (Free and Accepted Masons or Free Masons)
and those of the temple Endowments of Mormonism.  Joseph Smith
received his first degree in Masonry on March 15, 1842 and the
very next day was elevated to 32nd degree sublime Master of the
Royal Secret.  (See History of the Church (H.C.), Volume 4, page
550, 552).  Six weeks later, on May 2, 1842, Smith was teaching
these Masonic secrets as his own "revelations" to Mormon leaders
as the Temple Endowment (see H.C., Volume 15, Page 2).  It was
from his association with the Masons that Joseph Smith derived
the basic ceremonies and symbols now known as the "Endowment".
Into the fabric of Free Masonry he wove his own peculiar brand of
occultism, claiming it to be "Revelation" from on high.

   We do not intend to do an exhaustive comparison between Masonry
and the Mormon Temple Endowment, but we would like to draw your
attention to a few of the more obvious similarities.  Please keep
in mind as you look over the following list, that the Masonic
rituals and symbols pre-date the Mormon Church by several hundred
years:

   All Seeing Eye
   Anointing with oil
   Apron
   Beehive
   Square and Compass
   Earth Symbol
   Emblem of the clasped hands
   Solemn Assembly in the Temple
   Five points of Fellowship
   Special Garments applied to initiates
   Garment Markings
   Grips (Special handshakes)
   The phrase: "Holiness to the Lord"
   Moon symbol
   New Name given
   Special Prayer circle
   Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods
   Blood/death oaths of secrecy with morbid gestures and words
   describing penalties agreed to if secrets are revealed.
   Location (possession of) Throne of the "Holy of Holies"
   Star symbols
   Sun symbols
   Tabernacles
   Temples

   THE TEMPLE CEREMONIES

   Throughout the following account of the Temple ceremonies certain
explanatory notes have been added to help you understand the
flow of events.  These sections are clearly distinguished by the
bold face type used.  The temple ceremonies are set forth with no
editorial commentary on our part, for we feel that the words
spoken and doctrines revealed truly "Speak for themselves," and
demonstrate that Mormonism is not in any way Christian.

   The rituals, called "ordinances" or "temple work", which are
performed inside the temple are of two classes, work for the
living and work for the dead.

   Please refer to the introduction for an explanation of these.
Over 95% of the temple rituals are performed for the dead by a
patron acting as proxy for the dead person.

   PRE-INITIATORY" RITUAL

   The first ceremony for the dead in the Temple is that of Baptism.
This is performed in the beautiful baptismal font mounted on the
backs of 12 full sized oxen, located in the Temple basement.  The
officiator and the patron are dressed in heavy white jump-suits.
There are two or more witnesses observing the procedure.  Usually
a closed circuit T.V.  is used to project the names of the
deceased persons on a large T.V.  screen.  Typically 200-300
baptisms are performed per hour.  The baptismal pronouncement is
recited in full for each baptism, and the patron is completely
immersed.

   BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD

   Brother (or Sister) ________, having authority, I baptize you,
for and in behalf of________, who is dead, in the name of the
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen.

   Next comes the Confirmation for the Dead.  This is usually
performed at or near the baptismal font, by the same persons who
performed the baptism ritual.

   CONFIRMATION FOR THE DEAD

   Brother (or Sister) ________, in the name of Jesus Christ, we lay
our hands upon your head for and in behalf of ________, who is
dead, and confirm you a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and say unto you: Receive the Holy Ghost.
Amen.

   After the Baptism and Confirmation for the Dead are done, the
person who is doing work for the dead is ready to be washed with
water, anointed with oil and clothed in the garment of the Holy
Priesthood.  This is the beginning of the Endowment Ceremony.

   The ordination of the dead males to the Mormon "Holy Melchizedek
Priesthood" is usually (but not always) performed in the same area
of the Temple by the same proxy.  Other temple workers perform
this ordinance following the baptism and confirmation.  Two
workers lay their hands upon the patron's head and one of them
pronounces the ordination.

   ORDINATION FOR THE DEAD

   Brother ________, having authority we lay our hands upon your
head and confer upon you the Melchizedek Priesthood and ordain
you an Elder in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
for and in behalf of ________, who is dead, and seal upon you
every grace, gift and authority appertaining to his office in the
Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, for and in his behalf, in the name
of Jesus Christ.  Amen.

   INITIATORY ORDINANCE

   Following the pre-initiatory ordinances of baptism and
confirmation and ordination, other proxies will perform the next
group of rituals for these deceased parsons.  These are called
the "initiatory ordinances" or rituals and are performed on the
main floor level of the Temple, adjacent to the men's and women's
locker rooms.  These include washing with water, anointing with
oil, and clothing in the Garment of the Holy Priesthood.

   PREPARATION FOR PARTICIPATION

   As patrons enter the Temple, they present their "Temple
Recommend" to a doorkeeper immediately inside.  They then proceed
to a room with two typists at counters, one for men and the other
for women.  Each patron presents his recommend to the typist, she
types his name, then tears off a strip of the page approximately
1/2 inch wide by 2 1/2 inches long.  This contains the name and
birthdate of the deceased person, and the proxy's name.  The
patrons proceed to a room where Temple clothing may be rented.
Many patrons do not own their own Temple clothing but prefer to
rent it as a nominal charge.  Each Temple has a large and busy
laundry and sewing facility to provide this service.  The patrons
separate at this point to the men's and women's locker rooms,
where each patron is assigned a locker.

   The typical locker rooms are identical for men and women with one
exception, the bride's rooms.  The locker rooms are composed of
rows of dressing booths with chest high partitions.  The booth
contains three tall lockers with locks and keys.  There is a
space on top of the lockers for suitcases in which most patrons
carry their own white temple clothing.  Most patrons will remove
their street clothing and place it in the locker, leave their
temple garment on, and put on the white temple clothing - white
dress, slip, stockings and slippers, or white pants shirt, tie,
belt, socks and slippers which they either bought or rented.

   They will then lock their locker and proceed to receive the "New
Name" in a special booth, and then go to the theatre like
endowment room to receive the Endowment.  These patrons who are
receiving the Washing, Anointing, and Clothing in the Garment of
the Holy Priesthood, either for themselves or for a dead person
for whom they are proxy, will proceed as follows

   WASHING AND ANOINTING ROOM FOR MEN

   The patron prepares for these rituals, called the initiatory
ordinances, by removing all clothing and placing it in the
locker.  The patron puts on a devise called a shield.  This strip
of white sheeting approximately three feet wide by 8 feet long
with a head sized whole in the center.  It hangs open at the
sides and covers the body front and back.  The patron then
proceeds to the washing and anointing room, taking with him his
temple garment, name slip and locker key.  Usually he joins
group of similarly attired patrons on a bench waiting their turn
to enter.  As each patron enters, the temple worker takes the
garment from the patron and the patron enters the first section
of the room to be washed with water.

   The temple worker wets his right hand in running water and
proceeds to ceremonially wash the patron's body.  As he recites
the words of the ceremony, the temple worker lightly touches each
part of the patron's body mentioned with his fingers or hand.

   WASHING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority, I wash you preparatory to
your receiving your anointings (for and in behalf of ________,
who is dead), that you may become clean from the blood and sins
of this generation.  I wash your head, that your brain and your
intellect may be clear and active; your ears, that you may hear
the word of the Lord; your eyes, that you may see clearly and
discern between truth and error; your nose, that you may smell;
your lips, that you may never speak guile; your neck, that it may
bear up your head properly; your shoulders, that they may bear
the burdens that shall be placed thereon; your back, that there
may be marrow in the bones and in the spine; your breast, that it
may be the receptacle of pure and virtuous principles; your
vitals and bowels, that they may be healthy and strong and
perform their proper functions; your arms and hands, that they
may be strong and wield the sword of justice in defense of truth
and virtue; your loins, that you may be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, that you may have joy and rejoicing in your
posterity; your legs and feet, that you may run and not be weary,
and walk and not faint.

   The washing is then sealed by two temple workers placing their
hands upon the patron's head.  One of them pronounces the

   CONFIRMATION OF WASHING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority, we lay our hands upon your
head (for and in behalf of ________, who is dead), and seal upon
you this washing, that you may become clean from the blood and
sins of this generation through your faithfulness, in the name of
Jesus Christ.  Amen.

   Next, the patron enters the second part of the room where he is
seated upon a sort of a tile covered throne chair.  Another
temple worker pours some drops of oil from a large horn into his
hand and proceeds to anoint the patron's body, by dipping his
fingers in the oil and touching each part in turn.

   ANOINTING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority, I pour this holy anointing
oil upon your head (for and in behalf of ________, who is dead),
and anoint you preparatory to your becoming a King and a Priest
unto the Most High God, hereafter to rule and reign in the House
of Israel forever.  I anoint your head, that your brain and your
intellect may be clear and active; your ears, that you may hear
the word of the Lord; your eyes, that you may see clearly and
discern between truth and error; your nose, that you may smell;
your lips, that you may never speak guile; your neck, that it may
bear up your head properly; your shoulders, that they may bear
the burdens that shall be placed thereon; your back, that there
may be marrow in the bones and in the spine; your breast, that it
may be the receptacle of pure and virtuous principles; your
vitals and bowels, that they may be healthy and strong and
perform their proper functions; your arms and hands, that they
may be strong and wield the sword of justice in defense of truth
and virtue; your loins, that you may be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, that you may have joy and rejoicing in your
posterity; your legs and feet, that you may run and not be weary,
and walk and not faint.

   The anointing is then sealed by two of the temple workers laying
their hands upon the patron's head and one of them pronouncing
the sealing.

   CONFIRMATION OF ANOINTING - OF MEN

   Brother ________, having authority we lay hands upon your head
(for and in behalf of ________, who is dead), and confirm upon
you this anointing, wherewith you have been anointed in the
Temple of our God preparatory to becoming a king and a priest
unto the Most High God hereafter to rule and reign in the House
of Israel forever; and seal upon you all the blessings hereunto
appertaining, through your faithfulness, in the name of Jesus
Christ.  Amen.

   The patron now enters the third section of the room to be clothed
in the garment that he brought with him to the washing and
anointing room.  A temple worker holds the garment open for the
patron, who is still wearing the shield, to step into.  He then
helps the patron pull the garment up and put his arms in as the
worker is giving instructions and "New Name".

 RECEIVING THE "GARMENT OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD"
   AND THE "NEW NAME"

   Brother ________, having authority, I place this garment upon you
(for and in behalf of ________, who is dead), which you must wear
throughout your life.  It represents the garment given to Adam
when he was found naked in the Garden of Eden, and is called the
Garment of the Holy Priesthood.  Inasmuch as you do not defile
it, but are true and faithful to your covenants, it will be a
shield and a protection to you against the power of the destroyer
until you have finished your work here on earth.  With this
garment I give you a new name, which you should always remember,
and which you must keep sacred, and never reveal except at a
certain place that will be shown you hereafter.  The name is
"________".

   Each of the men and each of the women participating in the
Endowment (on a particular day) receive the same "New Name"..
The "New Name" is usually Biblical, such as Abraham, Joseph,
Moses, etc.  or Martha, Mary, or Naomi.  An alternate New Name is
provided to those patrons who are representing a dead person
whose first name sounds like the New Name in use.

   The patron then goes back to his locker, removes his shield, and
puts on his white clothing, which he either rented or brought
with him.  This includes white shirt, trousers, belt, socks, tie
and mocassins.  This is put over the garment.  He then carries in
his hand the Temple Clothing which he will put on later in the
ceremony.

   The women patrons have been going through similar rituals in
their identical area of the Temple.  Over the Temple garment they
now dress in white slip, long dress, hose and mocassins.

   Today it is common practice for the Washing, Anointing and
Clothing in the Garment of the Holy Priesthood to be performed
separately from the Endowment by other proxies.  Those who come
to the Temple to perform only the Endowment dress in their white
Temple clothing and pass through a special booth where they
receive the "New Name" on their way to the Endowment rooms.  The
name slip containing the name of the dead person is green or gold
for these persons.

   The patrons will usually pass through a beautiful foyer and climb
an impressive flight of stairs to reach the Endowment room where
they will be segregated by a temple worker, women to the left and
men to the right (entering always from the rear) and be seated on
richly upholstered theatre type seats.  In the older Temples,
patrons often still move from room to room through the various
stages of presentation of the Endowment.  In modern Temples,
patrons remain in one room throughout the first one and one half
hours of the Endowment, which is presented in motion picture form
except for the secret tokens, names, signs, penalties, prayer
circle and veil explanation portion, which are on tape recording.
The Officiator, who is "in charge" of the presentation pantomimes
much of the taped portion, and rarely speaks.

   CREATION ROOM

   LECTURER #1 (tape recording Brethren and Sisters, we welcome
you to the Temple and hope you will find joy in serving in the
house of the Lord this day.  Those of you who are here for your
own Endowments and those who have yellow or white family name
slips should have been washed, anointed, and clothed in the
garment of the Holy Priesthood.  The brethren with the yellow
name slips should also have been ordained.  The ordinances of
washing, anointing, and clothing in the garment of the Holy
Priesthood, together with the ordaining on behalf of deceased
brethren, were performed previously by other proxies for those
whose names are on the green or gold nameslips.

   Each of you should have received a "New Name" in connection with
this company.  If any of you have forgotten the "New Name", or
have not received these ordinances as explained, please stand.
Please be alert, attentive and refrain from whispering during the
presentation of the Endowment.  As you are asked to proceed to
the veil, please do so in an orderly manner, row by row as
directed.  After passing through the veil into the Celestial
Room, and in other areas in the Temple, if you need to
communicate, please whisper, thus helping us maintain the quiet
reverence that should prevail in the House of the Lord.  We will
now proceed with the presentation of the Endowment.

   LECTURER #2 Brethren, you have been washed and pronounced
clean, or that through your faithfulness, you may become clean
from the blood and sins of this generation.  You have been
anointed to become hereafter Kings and Priests unto the Most High
God, to rule and reign in the House of Israel forever.

   Sisters, you have been washed and anointed to become Queens and
Priestesses to your husbands.

   Brethren and Sisters, if you are true and faithful, the day will
come when you will be chosen, called up and anointed Kings and
Queens, Priests and Priestesses, whereas you are now anointed
only to become such.  The realization of these blessings depends
upon your faithfulness.

   You have had a garment placed upon you, which you were informed,
represents the garment given to Adam when he was found naked in
the garden of Eden, and which is called the Garment of the Holy
Priesthood.  This you were instructed to wear throughout your
life.  You were informed that it will be a shield and a
protection to you if you are true and faithful to your covenants.

   You have had a New Name given unto you, which you were told never
to divulge nor forget.  This New Name is a keyword which you will
be required to give at a certain place in the temple today.

   The Endowment is to prepare you for exaltation in the Celestial
Kingdom.

   If you proceed and receive your full Endowment, you will be
required to take upon yourselves sacred obligations, the
violation of which will bring upon you the judgment of God; for
God will not be mocked.  If any of you desire to withdraw rather
than accept these obligations of your own free will and choice,
you may now make it known by raising your hand.  PAUSE)

   Brethren and Sisters, as you sit here, you will hear the voices
of three persons who represent Elohim, Jehovah and Michael.
Elohim will command Jehovah and Michael to go down and organize a
world.  The work of the six creative periods will be represented.
They will organize man in their own likeness and image, male and
female.  This however is simply figurative so far as the man and
woman are concerned.  PAUSE)

   Here begins a motion picture presentation which constitutes the
major portion of the Endowment.  Originally it was done on stage
with live actors, but most all Temples are now using the filmed
versions of the Endowment ceremony.  During the creation sequence
a series of scenes and animation or still art work are shown
portraying the creation activities.  Only the voices of the
characters are heard.

   THE CREATION - FIRST DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, See yonder is matter unorganized.  Go
ye down and organize it into a world like unto the worlds that we
have heretofore formed.  Call your labors the First Day and bring
me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go
down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, see, here is the matter unorganized.  We will
organize it into a world like unto the worlds that we have
heretofore formed.  We will call our labors the First Day and
return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the First Day,
Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Elohim, we have been down as thou hast commanded and
have organized a world like unto the worlds that we have
heretofore formed and we have called our labors the First Day.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   SECOND DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, go down again.  Gather the waters
together and cause the dry land to appear.  The great waters call
ye seas and the dry land call ye earth.  Form mountains and
hills, great rivers and small streams to beautify and give
variety to the face of the earth.  When you have done this, call
your labors the Second Day and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go
down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, we will gather the waters together and cause
the dry land to appear.  The great waters we will call seas, and
the dry land we will call Earth.  We will form mountains and
hills, great rivers and small streams to beautify and give
variety to the face of the earth.  We will call our labors the
Second Day and return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the Second Day,
Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Elohim, we have been down as thou hast commanded, and
have gathered the waters together and have caused the dry land to
appear.  The great waters we have called seas and the dry land we
have called earth.  We have formed mountains and hills, great
rivers and small streams to beautify and give variety to the
face of the earth.  And we have called our labors the Second Day.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   THIRD DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, return again to the earth you have
formed.  Divide the light from the darkness.  Call the light day
and the darkness night.  Cause the lights in the firmament to
appear, the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light
to rule the night.  Cause the stars also to appear, to give light
to the earth, the same as with the worlds we have heretofore
formed.  When you have done this, call your labors the Third Day,
and return and report.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, we will divide the light from the darkness.
We will call the light day, and the darkness night.  We will
cause the lights in the firmaments to appear, the greater light
to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night.  We will
cause the stars also to appear, to give light to the earth, the
same as with the worlds we have heretofore formed.  We will call
our labors the Third Day, and return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the Third Day,
Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH We have been down as thou hast commanded, and divided
the light from the darkness.  The light we have called day, and
the darkness we have called night.  We have caused the firmament
to appear.  We have set the greater light to rule the day, and
the lesser light to rule the night.  We have caused the stars to
appear to give light to the earth, and have called our labors the
Third Day.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   FOURTH DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, return again to the earth you have
formed.  Plant seeds of all kinds in the earth ...

   NOTE: Elohim continues the instructions for filling the earth
with vegetation, various forms of flora are specified.  Jehovah
and Michael accept the instructions and the process is repeated
as in the first three days, with the instructions being put into
action upon the earth.  Jehovah and Michael return and repeat the
same instructions in the form of a report, which Elohim accepts
with, "It is well".

   FIFTH DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, go down again to the earth you have
formed, and place beasts and all forms of animal life thereon:
the Elephant, the Lion, the Tiger, the Bear, the Horse, Cattle in
the fields and other kinds of animals; fouls in the air in all
their varieties; fishes of all kinds in the waters, and insects
and all manner of animal life upon the earth.  Command the
beasts, the fouls, the fishes, the insects, all creeping things
and other forms of animal life to multiply in their respective
elements, each after its kind, and every kind of vegetation to
multiply in its sphere, that every form of life may fulfill the
measure of its creation and have joy therein.  Call your labors
the Fifth Day, and return and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  Come Michael, let us go
down.

   MICHAEL We will go down, Jehovah.

   JEHOVAH Michael, now that the earth is formed, divided and
beautified, and vegetation is growing there on, we will place
beasts upon the land: the Elephant, the Lion, the Tiger, the
Bear, the Horse, and all other kinds of animals; fouls in the air
in all their varieties, fishes of all kinds in the waters, and
insects, and all manner of animal life upon the earth.  We will
command the beasts, the fouls, the fishes, the insects, all
creeping things and other forms of animal life to multiply in
their respective elements, each after its kind, and every kind of
vegetation to multiply in its sphere, that every form of life may
fill the measure of its creation, and have joy therein.  We will
call our labors the Fifth Day, and return and report.

   MICHAEL We will return and report our labors of the Fifth Day,
Jehovah.

   Jehovah and Michael then return and repeat the dialogue again to
Elohim in the form of a report.

   ELOHIM It is well.

   SIXTH DAY

   ELOHIM Jehovah, is man found upon the earth?

   JEHOVAH No, man is not found upon the earth, Elohim.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, Michael, then let us go down and form man in
our own likeness and in our own image, male and female, and put
into him his spirit, and let us give him dominion over the
beasts, the fishes, and the birds, and make him Lord over the
earth and over all things on the face of the earth.  We will
plant for him a garden, eastward in Eden, and place him in it to
tend and cultivate it, that he may be happy and have joy therein.
We will command him to multiply and replenish the earth, that he
may have joy in his posterity.  We will place before him the Tree
of Knowledge of Good and Evil, and we will allow Lucifer, our
common enemy, whom we have thrust out, to tempt him and to try
him, that he may know by his own experience the good from the
evil.  If he yields to temptation, we will give unto him the Law
of Sacrifice, and we will provide a Savior for him, as we
counselled in the beginning, that man may be brought forth by the
power of the redemption and the resurrection, and come again into
our presence, and with us partake of eternal life and exaltation.
We will call this the sixth day and we will rest from our labors
for a season.  Come, let us go down.

   JEHOVAH We will go down, Elohim.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, see the earth that we have formed.  There is no
man to till and take care of it.  We are here to form man in our
own likeness and in our own image.

   JEHOVAH We will do so, Elohim.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, man is now organized and we will put into him
his spirit, the breath of life, that he may become a living soul.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, is it good for man to be alone?

   JEHOVAH It is not good for man to be alone, Elohim.

   ELOHIM We will cause a deep sleep to come upon this man whom we
have formed and we will take from his side a rib from which we
will form a woman to be a companion and a helpmeet for him.

   NARRATOR Brethren and Sisters, this is Michael, who helped form
the earth.  When he awakens from the sleep which Elohim and
Jehovah have caused to come upon him, he will be known as Adam
and having forgotten all, will become like a little child.
Brethren, close your eyes as if you were asleep.

   ELOHIM Adam, awake and arise.

   NARRATOR All the brethren will please arise.

   (Men all stand up

   ELOHIM Adam, here is a woman whom we have formed and whom we
give unto you to be a companion and an helpmeet for you.  What
will you call her?

   ADAM Eve.

   Elohim and Jehovah are shown suspended in air against the garden
backdrop, as identical, brilliant, white, radiant personages with
long white beards, white hair, and long white robes.  Adam and Eve
are shown shoulders and up behind garden foliage.)

   ELOHIM Why will you call her Eve?

   ADAM Because she is the Mother of all living.

   ELOHIM That is right, Adam.  Because she is the Mother of all
living.

   Adam, we have organized for you this earth, and have planted a
garden eastward in Eden.  We will place you in the garden and
will there command you and Eve to multiply and replenish the
earth, that you may have joy and rejoicing in your posterity.
Jehovah, introduce Adam into the Garden which we have prepared
for him.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.

   Narrator We now go with Adam and Eve into the garden.  The
Brethren will please be seated.

   THE GARDEN OF EDEN

   ELOHIM Adam, we have created for you this earth, and have
placed upon it all kinds of vegetation and animal life.  We have
commanded all these to multiply in their own sphere and element.
We give you dominion over all these things, and make you Lord
over the whole earth, and all things on the face thereof.  We
now command you and Eve to multiply and replenish the earth, that
you may have joy and rejoicing in your posterity.  We have also
planted for you this garden, wherein we have placed all manner of
fruits, flowers and vegetation.  Of every tree of the garden thou
mayest freely eat, but of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil
thou shalt not eat, nevertheless thou mayest choose for thyself,
for it is given unto thee.  But remember that I forbid it, for in
the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

   Adam, remember this commandment which we have given unto you.
Now go to, dress this garden, take good care of it, be happy and
have joy therein.  We shall go away, but we shall visit you again
and give you further instructions.

   LUCIFER: (Wearing crimson velvet flowing robe with tunic and
apron underneath)Well, Adam, you have a new world here.

   ADAM A new world?

   LUCIFER Yes, a new world, patterned after the old one where we
used to live.

   ADAM I know nothing about any other world.

   LUCIFER Oh, I see, your eyes are not yet opened.  You have
forgotten everything.  You must eat some of the fruit of this
tree (walks to Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil and picks 2
ripe fruit, usually having a appearance of an apple, then walks
over to Adam and holds fruit out to him.  Adam, here is some of
the fruit of that tree.  It will make you wise.

   ADAM I will not partake of that fruit.  Father told me that in
the day that I should partake of it I should surely die.

   LUCIFER You shall not surely die, but shall be as the Gods,
knowing good and evil.

   ADAM I will not partake of it.

   LUCIFER Oh, you will not ?(looks at Eve and expresses a wise
grin Well, we shall see.  (walks over to where Eve is admiring
the flowers Eve, here is some of the fruit of that tree (hold
fruit out to Eve.  It will make you wise.  It is delicious to
the taste and very desirable.

   EVE (surprised Who are you?

   LUCIFER (tenderly I am your brother.

   EVE (Inquisitively You, my brother, and have come here to
persuade me to disobey Father?

   LUCIFER (expounding LDS doctrine I have said nothing about
Father.  I want you to eat of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge
of Good and Evil, that your eyes may be opened, for that is the
way Father gained his knowledge.  You must eat of this fruit so
as to comprehend that everything has its opposite: good and evil;
virtue and vice; light and darkness; health and sickness;
pleasure and pain; and thus your eyes will be opened and you will
have -- knowledge.

   EVE (plaintively Is there no other way?

   LUCIFER (confidently There is no other way.

   EVE (resignedly Then I will partake.

   LUCIFER: (Expresses a smug, wise grin) There, now go and get
Adam to partake (places another fruit in Eve's hand, closes it,
and pats her hand.

   EVE: (Walks over to where Adam is - Sweetly and persuasively)
Adam, here is some of the fruit of that tree.  It is delicious to
the taste and very desirable.

   ADAM (surprised Eve, do you know what fruit that is?

   EVE Yes, it is the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and
Evil.

   ADAM I can not partake of it.  Do you not know that Father
commanded us not to partake of the fruit of that tree?

   EVE (searchingly Do you intend to obey all of Father's
commandments?

   ADAM (resolutely Yes, all of them.

   EVE (pathetically Do you not recollect that Father commanded us
to multiply and replenish the earth? I have partaken of this
fruit and by so doing shall be cast out, and you will be left a
lone man in the Garden of Eden.

   ADAM (resignedly Eve, I see that this must be so.  I will
partake that man may be.

   LUCIFER (walks into the scene That is right.

   EVE (philosophically It is better for us to pass through sorrow
that we may know the good from the evil.  (Eve turns to Lucifer -
contemptuously.  I know thee now.  Thou art Lucifer, he who was
cast out of Father's presence for rebellion.

   LUCIFER: (wisely) Yes, you are beginning to see already.

   ADAM (inquisitively What is that apron you have on?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly) It is an emblem of my power and
Priesthoods.

   ADAM Priesthoods?

   LUCIFER Yes, Priesthoods.

   ADAM I am looking for Father to come down to give us further
instructions.

   LUCIFER Oh, you are looking for Father to come down, are you?

   ELOHIM (voices from a distance Jehovah, we promised Adam that
we would visit him and give him further instructions.  Come, let
us go down.

   JEHOVAH We will go down, Elohim.

   ADAM (excitedly I hear their voices, they are coming.

   LUCIFER (excitedly and slyly See, you are naked.  Take some
fig leaves and make you aprons.  Father will see your nakedness.
Quick! Hide!*

   ADAM (alarmed Come, let us hide.

   NARRATOR Brethren and Sisters, put on your aprons (the movie
stops while the patrons in the audience remove th green fig-leaf
apron from their package of Temple clothing and tie it around
their waist.

   ELOHIM Adam (pause, Adam! (pause, Adam! Where art thou?

   ADAM (cowering I heard thy voice and hid myself, because I was
naked.

   ELOHIM (searchingly Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast
thou partaken of the fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good
and Evil, of which we commanded thee not to partake?

   ADAM (ashamedly The woman thou gavest me, and commanded that
she should remain with me, she gave me of the fruit of the tree,
and I did eat.

   ELOHIM (sternly Eve, what is this thou hast done?

   EVE (ashamedly The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

   ELOHIM (angrily Lucifer, what hast thou been doing here?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly I have been doing that which has been
done in other worlds.

   ELOHIM What is that?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly I have been giving some of the fruit of
the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil to them.

   ELOHIM (judgementally Lucifer, because thou hast done this,
thou shalt be cursed above all the beasts of the field.  Upon thy
belly shalt thou go and dust thou shalt eat all the days of thy
life.

   LUCIFER (defiantly If thou curseth me for doing the same thing
which has been done in other worlds, I will take the spirits that
follow me, and they shall possess the bodies thou createst for
Adam and Eve.

   ELOHIM I will place enmity between thee and the seed of the
woman.  Thou mayest have power to bruise his heel, but he shall
have power to crush thy head.

   LUCIFER (vehemently Then with that enmity I will take the
treasures of the earth, and with gold and silver I will buy up
armies and navies, Popes and Priests, and reign with blood and
horror on this earth.

   ELOHIM (authoritatively Depart!

   ELOHIM (turning to Jehovah Jehovah, let cherubim and flaming
sword be placed to guard the way of the Tree of Life, lest Adam
put forth his hand and partake of the fruit thereof, and live
forever in his sins.

* Note how often Lucifer voices instructions and teaches
 doctrine

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  (Turns away and gives
command Let cherubim an a flaming sword be placed to guard the
way of the Tree of Life, lest Adam put forth his hand and partake
of the fruit thereof, and live forever in his sins.  (turns back
to Elohim It is done, Elohim.

   ELOHIM (judgementally Eve, because thou hast hearkened to the
voice of Satan and hast partaken of the forbidden fruit, and
given unto Adam, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy
conception; in sorrow shalt thou bring forth children.  Neverthe
less thou mayest be preserved in child-bearing.  Thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee in righteousness.

   Adam, because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife and
hast partaken of the forbidden fruit, the earth shall be cursed
for thy sake.  Instead of producing fruits and flowers
spontaneously, it shall bring forth thorns, thistles, briars and
noxious weeds to afflict and torment man.  And by the sweat of
thy face shalt thou eat thy bread all the days of thy life.  For
dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

   THE LAW OF OBEDIENCE

   ELOHIM (condescendingly Inasmuch as Eve was the first to eat
of the forbidden fruit, if she will covenant that from this time
forth she will obey your law in the Lord, and will harken unto
your council as you harken unto mine, and if you will covenant
that from this time forth you will obey the law of Elohim, we
will give unto you the law of obedience and sacrifice, and we
will provide a Savior for you whereby you may come back into our
presence, and with us partake of eternal life and exaltation.

   EVE (humbly Adam, I now covenant to obey your law as you obey
our Father.

   ADAM (humbly Elohim, I now covenant with you that from this
time forth I will obey your law and keep your commandments.
ELOHIM It is well, Adam.  Jehovah, inasmuch as Adam and Eve have
discovered their nakedness, make coats of skins as a covering for
them.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.

   NARRATOR Brethren and Sisters, the garment that was placed upon
you in the washing room is to cover your nakedness and
represents the coat of skins spoken of.  Anciently it was made of
skins.  You have received the garment, also your New Name.  The
Officiator will represent Elohim at the altar.  A couple will now
come to the altar (a pre-selected "witness couple"* seated front
row center aisle come forward and kneel at the altar facing
forward.

   It is considered a very special experience to be selected to be
the "witness couple".  As they represent all the patrons at the
altar, the Endowment takes on a very 'realistic' atmosphere for
his couple as they move back and forth to the altar to receive
the tokens and actually take part in the ceremony.  Dolly and I
were selected twice in approximately 150 Endowment ceremonies in
nine years, and I remember the experience clearly.

   Brethren and Sisters, this couple at the altar represent all of
you as if at the altar.  You must consider yourselves as if you
were respectively Adam and Eve.

   ELOHIM We will put the sisters under covenant to obey the law
of their husbands.  Sisters, arise (sisters all stand up.  Each
of you bring your right arm to the square.  You and each of you
solemnly covenant and promise before God, angels, and these
witnesses at this altar that you will each observe and keep the
law of your husband, and abide by his council in righteousness.
Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   SISTERS Yes.

   ELOHIM That will do.  (sisters sit down Brethren, arise
(bretheren all stand up.  Bring your right arm to the square.
You and each of you solemnly covenant and promise before God,
angels and these witnesses at this altar that you will obey the
law of God and keep His commandments.  Each of you bow your head
and say yes.

   BRETHREN Yes.

   ELOHIM That will do.  (Bretheren all sit down

   LAW OF SACRIFICE

   ELOHIM You are now about to be put under covenant to obey and
keep the Law of Sacrifice, as contained in the Old and the New
Testament.  This Law of Sacrifice was given to Adam in the Garden
of Eden, who, when he was driven out of the Garden, built an
altar on which he offered sacrifices.  And after many days, an
angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam saying: "Why dost thou offer
sacrifice unto the Lord?" And Adam said unto him: "I know not,
save the Lord commanded me." And then the angel spake saying:
"This thing is a similitude of the Sacrifice of the Only Begotten
of the Father, who is full of grace and truth.  Wherefore, thou
shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou
shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forever-
more." The posterity of Adam down to Moses and from Moses to
Jesus Christ offered up the first fruits of the field and
firstlings of the flock, which continued until the death of Jesus
Christ, which ended sacrifice by the shedding of blood.

   And as Jesus Christ has laid down his life for the redemption of
mankind so we should covenant to sacrifice all that we possess,
even our own lives if necessary, in sustaining and defending the
Kingdom of God (the Mormon Church is the Kingdom of God.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.  Each of you bring your right
arm to the square.  You and each of you solemnly covenant and
promise before God, angels, and these witnesses at this altar
that you will observe and keep the law of sacrifice as contained
in the Old and the New Testaments, as it has been explained to
you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   BRETHREN AND SISTERS (all bow their head Yes.

   ELOHIM That will do (patrons all sit down.

   FIRST TOKEN OF THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD

   ELOHIM We now give unto you the First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Before
doing this, however, we desire to impress upon your minds the
sacred character of the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood,
with its accompanying name, sign and penalty, as well as that of
all the other Tokens of the Holy Priesthood, with their names,
signs and penalties, which you will receive in the temple this
day.  They are most sacred and are guarded by solemn covenants
and obligations of secrecy to the effect that under no condition,
even at the peril of your life, will you ever divulge them,
except at a certain place that will be shown you hereafter.  The
representation of the execution of the penalties indicates
different ways in which life may be taken.

   The First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood is given by clasping
the right hands and placing the joint of the thumb directly over
the first knuckle of the hand, in this manner (the Officiator
takes the Brother kneeling at the altar by the right hand and
demonstrates the token to the audience.

   We give unto you the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood.  We
desire all to receive it....

   All arise (The patrons all stand in place.  The witness couple
return to their seats.  Several temple workers circulate through
the rows of patrons giving each one the token.  The patrons sit
down after each receives it.

   If any of you did not receive this token you will please raise
your hands.

   The name of this token is the New Name that you received in the
temple today.  If any of you have forgotten the New Name, please
stand.  (pause* The sign is made by bringing the right arm to
the square; the palm of the hand to the front, the fingers close
together, and the thumb extended.  (The Officiator demonstrates
the sign to the audience This is the sign.

   (The Officiator continues to demonstrate the instructions

   If a patron stands up, indicating he has forgotten the New Name,
he is taken by a Temple Worker to the rear of the room where the
New Name is whispered in his ear.  He then returns to his seat,
and the ceremony then resumes.  This gives the false impression
that there is more than one New Name in use.  Many patrons have
attended the Temple for years before the realized that everyone
has the same New Name.

   The execution of the penalty is represented by placing the thumb
under the left ear, the palm of the hand down, and by drawing the
thumb quickly across the throat to the right ear, and dropping
the hand to the side.

   I will now explain the covenant and obligation of secrecy which
are associated with this token, its name, sign and penalty and
which you will be required to take upon yourselves.  If I were
receiving my own Endowment today and had been given the name of
John as my New Name, I would repeat in my mind these words, after
making the sign (he makes the sign, at the same time
representing the execution of the penalty.

   I, John, covenant that I will never reveal the first token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign, and
penalty.  Rather than do so, I would suffer (pause, places right
thumb under left ear my life (pause, draws thumb quickly across
throat to right ear to be taken (drops hands to side.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.

   Each of you make the sign of the First Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood by bringing your right arm to the squares, the palm of
the hand to the front, the fingers close together, and the thumb
extended.

   (Patrons all make the sign.

   This is the sign.

   Now, repeat in your minds after me the words of the covenant, at
the same time representing the execution of the penalty.

   I, think of the New Name, covenant that I will never reveal the
First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying
name, sign and penalty.  Rather than do so, I would suffer
(patrons all place right thumb under left ear as described above
my life (patrons all draw thumb across their throat to the right
ear to be taken (Patrons all drop the hand to their side.

   That will do (patrons all sit down.

   (If any of the brethren or sisters make a mistake in the
execution of the penalty, the execution of the penalty is
repeated by all of the patrons together as instructed.

   It is necessary to repeat the sign of the execution of the
penalty.  The sign of the First Token of the Aaronic Priesthood
is made by bringing the right arm to the square, the palm of the
hand to the front, the fingers close together, and the thumb
extended.  This is the sign (patrons all make sign.  It is not
necessary to repeat again the words of the covenant in
representing the execution of the penalty, but let the name of
the token pass through your mind.  Now represent the execution of
the penalty (patrons all execute the penalty.

   That will do (patrons all sit down.

   ELOHIM Jehovah, see that Adam is driven out of this beautiful
garden into the lone and dreary world, where he may learn from
his own experience to distinguish good from evil.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.

   THE LONE AND DREARY WORLD

   NARRATOR We will now go with Adam and Eve to the lone and
dreary world.  Brethren and Sisters, this represents the
Telestial Kingdom, or the world in which we now live.  Adam, upon
finding himself in the lone and dreary world, built an altar and
offered prayer, and these are the words he uttered:

   ADAM (hands raised up and looking toward heaven
 Oh God, hear the words of my mouth!
 Oh God, hear the words of my mouth!
 Oh God, hear the words of my mouth!

   LUCIFER (arrogant voice from off scene I hear you.  (Camera
pans left to show towering, arrogant, colorful Lucifer poised
near Adam, Lucifer walks over to Adam.  What is it you want?

   ADAM (surprised Who are you?

   LUCIFER (arrogantly I am the God of this world.

   ADAM (unsure, questioning You, the God of this world?

   LUCIFER Yes, what do you want?

   ADAM I am looking for messengers.

   LUCIFER (expresses a smug, wise grin Oh, you want someone to
preach to you.  You want religion do you.  I will have preachers
here presently.  (Lucifer turns and looks left.  Camera pans to
approaching figure dressed in dark blue ministerial robe and
priest's collar until he walks up to Lucifer.  Good Morning Sir.

   PREACHER (wisely Good morning! (looking into the audience A
fine congregation.

LUCIFER Yes, they are very good people.  They are concerned
about religion.  Are you a preacher?

   PREACHER (proudly with emphasis I am.

   LUCIFER (searchingly Have you been to college and received
training for the ministry?

   PREACHER (proudly with emphasis Certainly! A man cannot
preach unless he has been trained for the ministry!

   LUCIFER Do you preach the orthodox religion?

   PREACHER (proudly with emphasis Yes, that is what I preach.

   LUCIFER If you will preach your orthodox religion to these
people and convert them, I will pay you well.

   PREACHER I will do my best.

LUCIFER (looks and gestures toward Adam and Eve Here is a man
who desires religion.  He is very much exercised, and seems to be
sincere (Lucifer steps back as Preacher approaches Adam and Eve.

   PREACHER (authoritatively I understand you are inquiring after
religion.

   ADAM (sincerely I was calling upon Father.

   PREACHER (dramatically, with gestures I am glad to know that
you were calling upon Father.  Do you believe in a God who is
without body, parts and passions, who sits on the top of a
topless throne, whose center is everywhere and whose
circumference is nowhere; who fills the universe, and yet is so
small that he can dwell in your heart.  Who is surrounded by
miriads of beings who have been saved by Grace, not by any act of
theirs, but by His good pleasure.  Do you believe in this great
Being?

   ADAM (emphatically I do not.  I cannot comprehend such a
Being.

   PREACHER (wistfully That is the beauty of it.  (reproachful
ly Perhaps you do not believe in the devil and in that great
hell, the bottomless pit, where there is a lake of fire and
brimstone, into which the wicked are cast, and where they are
continually burning but are never consumed?

   ADAM (emphatically I do not believe in any such place.

   PREACHER (reproachfully My dear friend, I am sorry for you.

   LUCIFER (disgustedly I am sorry! very, very sorry!
(searchingly What is it you want?

   ADAM (sincerely I am looking for messengers from my Father.

   ELOHIM (Scene fades to etheral view of magnificent, huge throne
set - with semi circle of towering Greecian columns, broad steps,
Celestial splendor.  Elohim majestically towering above Jehovah,
both appearing as in Garden scene.  Jehovah, send down Peter,
James and John to visit the man Adam in the Telestial World,
without disclosing their identity.  Have them observe conditions
generally, see if Satan is there, and learn whether Adam has been
true to the token and sign given to him in the Garden of Eden.
Have them then return and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH (reverently and submissively It shall be done, Elohim.
(Jehovah turns and walk from the presence of Elohim to the edge
of the great columned set, there Peter, James and John reverently
enter amid rolling clouds [stage smoke] in an etherial view.
Peter, James and John are wearing long, full, shepherd type robes
with colorful sashes.

   JEHOVAH Peter, James and John, go down and visit the man Adam
in the Telestial World, without disclosing your identity.
Observe conditions generally.  See if Satan is there, and learn
whether Adam has been true to the token and sign given to him in
the Garden of Eden.  Then return and bring us word.

   PETER (reverently and submissively It shall be done, Jehovah.
Come James and John, let us go down.

   JAMES (reverently and submissively We will go down.

   JOHN (reverently and submissively We will go down.

   (All turn and exit scene in single file, Peter leading.  Scene
fades back to Lone and Dreary World.  Peter, James and John file
into scene, Peter leading, approaches Lucifer, who turns toward
him.

   PETER Good morning.

   LUCIFER Good morning.

   PETER (intently What are you doing here?

   LUCIFER Teaching religion.

   PETER (searchingly What religion do you teach?

   LUCIFER (proudly with emphasis We teach a religion made of
the philosophies of men, mingled with Scripture.

   PETER How is your religion received by this community?

   LUCIFER Very well -- excepting this man.  He does not seem to
believe anything we preach.  (Peter, James & John turn from
Lucifer and walk over to Adam and Eve

   PETER (intently Good morning.  What do you think of the
preaching of these gentlemen?

   ADAM (intently I cannot comprehend it.

   PETER (searchingly Can you give us some idea concerning it?

   ADAM (expresses wonderment They preach of a God who is
without body, parts or passions, who is so large he fills the
universe and yet so small that he can dwell in my heart, and of a
hell without a bottom where the wicked are continually burning
but are never consumed.  To me it is a mass of confusion.

   PETER (sympathetically We do not wonder that you cannot
comprehend such doctrine.  Have you any tokens or signs? (Lucifer
enters the scene and interrupts the conversation.

   LUCIFER (dramatically, with gestures Do you have any money?

   PETER We have sufficient for our needs.

   LUCIFER (dramatically, with gestures You can buy anything in
this world for money.

   PETER (turns back to Adam, searchingly Do you sell your
tokens or signs for money? You have them, I presume.

   ADAM (sincerely I have them, but I do not sell them for
money.  I hold them sacred.  I am looking for the further light
and knowledge Father promised to send me.

   PETER That is right.  We commend you for your integrity.  Good
day.  (Peter, James and John turn and exit, single file, Peter
leading, stop at the edge of the set.  We shall probably visit
you again.  (Peter, James and John exit set.  Camera pans to
Lucifer who approaches camera ominously and threateningly.  Looks
intently into the audience.

   LUCIFER (vehemently Now is the great day of my power.  I reign
from the rivers to the ends of the earth.  There is none who
dares to molest or make afraid.

   PREACHER (curiously Shall we ever have any apostles or
prophets?

   LUCIFER (proudly No.  However there may be some who will
profess revelation or apostleship.  If so, just test them by
asking them to perform a great miracle, such as cutting off an
arm or some other member of the body, and restoring it, so that
the people may know that they come with power.  (scene fades to
Elohim's columned throne set.  Peter, James and John enter single
file, Peter leading [amid stage smoke] and approach Jehovah who
has been awaiting their return.

   PETER Jehovah, we have been to the man Adam in the Telestial
World as thou didst command.  We found Satan there, with his
ministers, preaching all manner of false doctrine, and striving
to lead the posterity of Adam astray.  But Adam has been true and
faithful to the token and sign given to him in the Garden of
Eden, and is waiting for the further light and knowledge you
promised to send him.  This is our report.

   JEHOVAH It is well, Peter, James and John.  (Jehovah turns and
ascends the set width stairs to approach Elohim, standing
majestically at the top.  Elohim, Peter, James and John have
been down to the man Adam in the Telestial World.  They found
Satan there with his ministers preaching all manner of false
doctrine, and striving to lead the posterity of Adam astray.  But
Adam has been true and faithful to the token and sign given him
in the Garden of Eden, and he is waiting for the further light
and knowledge you promised to send him.  This is their report.

   ELOHIM It is well.  Jehovah, instruct Peter, James and John to
go down in their true character as Apostles of the Lord Jesus
Christ, to the man Adam and his posterity in the Telestial World,
and to cast Satan out of their midst.  Instruct them to give unto
Adam and his posterity the Law of the Gospel as contained in the
Book of Mormon and the Bible.  Also a charge to avoid all light
mindedness, loud laughter, evil speaking of the Lord's anointed,
the taking of the name of the God in vain, and every other unholy
and impure practice, and cause these to be received by covenant.

   Instruct Peter, James and John further to clothe Adam and his
posterity in the robes of the Holy Priesthood, with the robe on
the left shoulder, and to give unto them the second token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.
Then have them return and bring me word.

   JEHOVAH It shall be done, Elohim.  (Jehovah turns, descends
stairs, approaches Peter, James and John Peter, James and John,
go down in your true character as Apostles of the Lord Jesus
Christ to the man Adam and his posterity in the Telestial World.
Cast Satan out of their midst.  Give unto them the Law of the
Gospel as contained in the Book of Mormon and the Bible.  Also a
charge to avoid all light mindedness, loud laughter, evil
speaking of the Lord's anointed, the taking of the name of God in
vain, and even other unholy and impure practice.  Cause them to
receive these by covenant.  Clothe them in the robes of the Holy
Priesthood, with the robe on the left shoulder, and give unto
them the second token of the Aaronic Priesthood, with its
accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Then return and bring us
word.

   PETER It shall be done, Jehovah.  Come James and John, let us
go down.

   JAMES We will go down.

   JOHN We will go down.

   (Peter, James and John turn and exit scene as before.  Scene
fades to Lone and Dreary World set.  Everyone is idle as Peter,
James and John file into set, and approaches Lucifer as before.

   PETER I am Peter.

   JAMES I am James.

   JOHN I am John.

   LUCIFER (reproachfully Yes, I thought I knew you.  (turns to
preacher, who is listening, dramatically Do you know who these
men are? They claim to be apostles.  Try them!

   (Lucifer backs away and Preacher steps up to Peter

   PREACHER (searchingly Do you profess to be apostles of the
Lord Jesus Christ?

   PETER (confidently We do.

   PREACHER (with sophistication This man told me that we should
never have any revelation or apostles, but if any should come
professing to be apostles, I was to ask them to cut off an arm or
some other member of the body and then restore it, so that the
people might know that they came with power.

   PETER (reproachfully We do not satisfy man's curiosity in
that manner.  It is a wicked and an adulterous generation that
seeks for a sign.  Do you know who that man is? He is Satan!

   PREACHER (surprised What! The Devil?

   PETER That is one of his names.

   PREACHER (sincerely He is quite a different person from what
he told me the Devil is.  He said the Devil has claws like a
bear's on his hands, horns on his head, and a cloven hoof, and
that when he speaks he has the roar of a lion!

   PETER (confidently He has said this to deceive you, and I
would advise you to get out of his employ.

   PREACHER (doubtfully Your advice is good.  But, if I leave his
employ, what will become of me?

   PETER (wisely We will preach the gospel unto you with the
rest of Adam's posterity.

   PREACHER (with satisfaction That is good.  (turns to Lucifer
who is watching nearby (deliberately I would like to have a
settlement.  I want you to pay me for preaching.

   LUCIFER (Proudly with emphasis) I am ready to keep my word and
fulfill my part of the agreement.  (reproachfully I promised to
pay you, if you would convert these people, and they have nearly
converted you.  You can get out of my kingdom.  I want no such
men in it.  (Preacher backs out of scene as Lucifer approaches
Peter - arrogantly Now, what are you going to do?

   PETER (reproachfully We will dismiss you without further
argument.

   LUCIFER (dramatically, with gestures Aah! you have looked
over my kingdom, and my greatness and glory.  Now you want to take
possession of the whole of it.  (Lucifer turns, approaches
the camera, eyes on, ominously, speaks sinisterly - with
vehemence [high drama] I have a word to say concerning these
people.  If they do not walk up to every covenant they make at
these altars in this temple this day, they will be in my power.*

   PETER (voice from off camera, commandingly.  Camera pans and
zooms back to include Peter, James and John Satan, we command
you to depart.

   LUCIFER (turns toward Peter, James and John - arrogantly By
what authority?

   PETER (Right arm to the square - judgementally In the name of
Jesus Christ, our Master.  (Satan very emotionally turns and
departs scene, Peter turns and approaches Adam and Eve Adam, we
are true messengers from the father, and have come down to give
unto you the further light and knowledge he promised to send you.

   ADAM (searchingly How shall I know that you are true
messengers?

   PETER (confidently By our giving unto you the token and sign
you received in the Garden of Eden.

   ADAM (taking Peter by the right hand, but out of view What is
that?

   PETER The first token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   ADAM Has it a name?

   PETER It has.

   ADAM Will you give it to me?

   PETER I cannot, for it is the New Name, but this is the sign
(right arm elevated to the square.  And this represents the
execution of the penalty (Thumb of right hand across throat.

   Lucifer still giving forth doctrine

   ADAM Now I know that you are true messengers sent down from
Father.  (turns to audience These are true messengers.  I exhort
you to give strict heed to their counsel and teachings, and they
will lead you in the way of life and salvation.

   NARRATOR The Officiator will represent Peter at the altar.

   At this point the motion picture presentation is concluded.  The
remainder of the presentation is from tape recording.

   THE LAW OF THE GOSPEL

   PETER A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
comes forward and kneels at the altar.  Brethren and Sisters,
this couple at the altar represent all of you as if at the altar,
and you will be under the same obligations that they will be.  We
are required to give unto you the Law of the Gospel as contained
in the Book of Mormon and the Bible.  To give unto you also a
charge to avoid all light mindedness, loud laughter, evil
speaking of the Lord's Anointed, the taking of the name of God in
vain, and every other unholy and impure practice, and to cause
you to receive these by covenant.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.  Each of you bring your right
arm to the square (patrons all raise right arm to the square.

   You and each of you covenant and promise before God, angels and
these witnesses at this altar, that you will observe and keep the
Law of the Gospel and this charge as it has been explained to
you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   BRETHREN AND SISTERS (all bow their head Yes.

   PETER That will do (patrons all sit down.

   THE ROBES OF THE HOLY PRIESTHOOD

   PETER We are instructed to clothe you in the robes of the Holy
Priesthood.  Place the robe on the left shoulder, place the cap
on your head with the bow over the right ear, replace the apron,
tie the girdle with the bow on the right side, remove the
slippers from your feet, and put them on again as part of the
Temple Clothing.  You may now proceed to clothe.

   The patrons all stand, and turn around to use their seat as a
dressing table.  The remove the green fig-leaf apron and the
slippers from their feet, open their package of Temple clothing,
and commence dressing by placing the long white robe on their
left shoulder and tie it in at the waist on the right side.  Next
they put on the hat* (or veil for women) with the bow over the

   *The hat looks like a baker's hat without the wide band.  It has
a bow on one side and a string on the opposite side.

   right ear, and then tie the string from the hat to the shoulder
loop of the rope.  Next they replace the green apron at the
waist, and then tie the long six inch wide sash in a large bow at
the right side of the waist.  They then sit down and replace the
slippers on their feet

   SECOND TOKEN OF THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD

   PETER A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
comes forward and kneel at the altar.  With the robe on the left
shoulder, you are prepared to officiate in the ordinances of the
Aaronic Priesthood.  We will now give unto you the Second Token
of the Aaronic Priesthood with its accompanying name, sign and
penalty.  This token is given by clasping the right hands and
placing the joint of the thumb between the first and second
knuckles of the hand, in this manner (Officiator takes brother at
the altar in the grip and shows the audience.

   We desire all to receive it.  All arise.  (The witness couple
stand up and return to their seats.  All patrons stand up in
place and receive the token from one of the temple workers who
circulate through the rows.  Then they sit down.  If any of you
have not received this token, will you please raise your hand.

   The name of this token is your own first given name if you are
going through the temple for your own Endowment, or if you are
going through for the dead, it is the first given name of the
person for whom you are officiating.

   PETER (the Officiator demonstrates the sign as the instructions
are given The sign is made by bringing the right hand in front of
you, with the hand in cupping shape, the right arm forming a
square, the left arm being raised to the square.  This is the
sign.  The execution of the penalty is represented by placing the
right hand on the left breast, drawing the hand quickly across
the body, and dropping the hand to the sides.  I will now explain
the covenant and obligation to secrecy which are associated with
this token, its name, sign and penalty, and which you will be
required to take upon yourself.

   If I were receiving my own Endowement today, and if my first
given name were David, I would repeat in my mind these words,
after making the sign, at the same time representing the
execution of the penalty (Officiator, still making the sign,
demonstrates the execution of the penalty.  I, David, covenant
that I will never reveal the second token of the Aaronic
Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Rather
than do so, I would suffer (pause, right hand to left breast my
life (pause, draws hand across chest to right breast to be taken
(drops hands to side.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.

   Each of you make the sign of the Second Token of the Aaronic
Priesthood by bringing the right hand in front of you, with the
hand in cupping shape, the right arm forming a square, and the
left arm being raised to the square.  This is the sign.

   Patrons all make the sign

   Now repeat in your minds after me the words of the covenant, at
the same time representing the execution of the penalty.

   I, think of the first given name, covenant that I will never
reveal the second token of the Aaronic Priesthood, with its
accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Rather than do so, I would
suffer (patrons all place left hand on right breast my life
(patrons all draw left hand quickly across the body to be taken
(patrons all drop both hands to the sides.  That will do
(patrons all sit down.

   (If any one of the brethren or sisters makes a mistake in the
execution of the penalty, the execution of the penalty is
repeated by all patrons together, as before.

   The tape resumes

   PETER Jehovah, we have been down to the man Adam and his
posterity in the Telestial world, and have cast Satan out of
their midst.  We have given unto them the Law of the Gospel as
contained in the Book of Mormon and the Bible.  Also a charge to
avoid all light mindedness, loud laughter, evil speaking of the
Lord's anointed, the taking of the name of God in vain, and every
other unholy and impure practice, and have caused them to receive
these by covenant.  We have also clothed them in the robes of the
Holy Priesthood and have given unto them the Second Token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.
This is our report.

   JEHOVAH It is well, Peter, James and John.  (Jehovah repeats the
same report to Elohim - who is pleased - and gives Jehovah
further instructions for Peter, James and John to return again to
Adam in the Telestial World and to give unto Adam instructions to
change his robe to the right shoulder preparatory to receiving
the ordinances of the Melchizedek Priesthood and to administer to
Adam the Law of Chastity and introduce him into the Terrestial
World.  Jehovah then instructs Peter, James and John.  They
accept the instructions and depart)

   PETER We are instructed to have you change your robe to the
right shoulder, preparatory to officiating in the ordinances of
the Melchizedek Priesthood, and to introduce you into the
Terrestial World.  You may now make the change by removing the
robe (the room light level is increased to represent the change
to the Terrestial World.

   The patrons all stand, turn around to use their seat as a clothes
stand, nd proceed to remove the hat, sash, apron, robe and
slippers.  They put the robe on again, but on the right shoulder,
then put all of the other items on reversed, with the bow of the
hat on the right ear and the sash tied to the left side.  They
sit down an put on the slippers

   THE TERRESTIAL WORLD
   Law of Chastity

   PETER A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
come forward and kneel at the altar as before .  We are
instructed to give unto you the Law of Chastity.  This I will
explain to you.  To the sisters, it is that no one of you will
have sexual intercourse except with your husband to whom you are
legally and lawfully wedded.  To the brethren, it is that no one
of you will have sexual intercourse except with your wife to whom
you are legally and lawfully wedded.

   Sisters, please arise (sisters all stand up.  Each of you bring
your right arm to the square.  You and each of you covenant and
promise before God, angels and these witnesses at this altar that
you will observe and keep the Law of Chastity, as it has been
explained to you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   SISTERS (all bow their head Yes.)

   PETER That will do (sisters all sit down.)

   Brethren, please arise (brethren all stand up.  Each of you
bring your right arm to the square.  You and each of you covenant
and promise before God, angels and these witnesses at this altar
that you will observe and keep the Law of Chastity as it has been
explained to you.  Each of you bow your head and say yes.

   BRETHREN (all bow their head Yes.)

   PETER That will do (brethren all sit down.

   FIRST TOKEN OF THE MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD
  OR THE SIGN OF THE NAIL

   PETER (the Officiator demonstrates the instructions before the
audience as the tape plays We will now give unto you the first
token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or sign of the nail, with its
accompanying name, sign and penalty.  This token is received by
bringing the right hand into this position.  The hand vertical,
the fingers close together, and the thumb extended.  And the
person giving the token placing the tip of the forefinger of his
right hand in the center of the palm, and the thumb opposite on
the back of the hand of the one receiving it, in this manner.  We
desire all to receive it.  All arise.

   The witness couple stand up and return to their seats as the
patrons all stand and receive the token from one of the temple
workers, then sit down.

PETER If any of you have not received this token, please you
will please raise your hand.

   The name of this token is "The Son", meaning the Son of God.

   The sign is made by bringing the left hand in front of you with
the hand in cupped shape, the left arm forming a square, the
right hand is also brought forward, the palm down, the fingers
close together, thumb extended, and the thumb is placed over the
left hip (Officiator makes the sign facing the audience as
before.  This is the sign.  The execution of the penalty is
represented by drawing the thumb quickly across the body and
dropping the hands to the side (Officiator demonstrates execution
of the penalty.

   I will now explain the covenant and obligation of secrecy which
are associated with this token, its name, sign, and penalty, and
which you will be required to take upon yourselves.  If I were
receiving the Endowment today, either for myself or for the dead,
I would repeat in my mind these words, after making the sign
(Officiator makes the sign, at the same time representing the
execution of the penalty.  I covenant in the name of the Son that
I will never reveal the first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood
or sign of the nail, with its accompanying name, sign and
penalty.  Rather that do so, I would suffer my life (pause, draws
right thumb across body to be taken (drops hands to his sides.

   All arise (patrons all stand up.)

   Each of you make the sign of the first token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood or sign of the nail by bringing the left hand in front
of you with the hand in cupping shape, the left arm forming a
square.  The right hand is also brought forward, the palm down,
the fingers close together and the thumb extended and the thumb
is placed over the left hip.  (Patrons all make the sign This is
the sign.

   Now repeat in your minds after me the words of the covenant, at
the same time representing the execution of the penalty.

   I covenant in the name of the Son that I will never reveal the
first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or sign of the nail,
with its accompanying name, sign and penalty.  Rather than do so, I
would suffer my life (patrons all draw their right thumb quickly
across their body to be taken (patrons all drop both hands to
their sides.

   That will do (patrons all sit down.)

   (If any of the bretheren or sisters makes a mistake in the
execution of the penalty, the execution of the penalty is
repeated by all the patrons as with previous penalties.)

   PETER: We will return and report.

   Jehovah, we have been down to the man Adam and his posterity,
have placed the robe on the right shoulder and have introduced
them into the Terrestial world.  We have put them under covenant
to observe and keep the law of chastity.  We have also given them
the first token of the Melchizidek Priesthood, or sign of the
nail, with its accompanying name, sign, and penalty.  This is our
report.

   JEHOVAH: It is well Peter, James and John.

   Elohim, Peter, James and John have been down to the man Adam and
his posterity, have placed the robe on the right shoulder, and
have introduced them into the Terrestial world.  They have also
put them under covenant to observe and keep the law of chastity.
They have given unto them, the First Token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, or Sign of the Nail, with its accompanying name, sign
and penalty.  This is their report.

   ELOHIM: It is well.  Jehovah, send down Peter, James, and John
and instruct them to give to the man Adam and his posterity in
the Terrestial World the law of consecration in connection with
the Law of the Gospel and the Law of Sacrifice, and to cause them
to receive it by covenant.  To give unto them the second token of
the Melchizedek Priesthood, the Pariarchial Grip or sure sign of
the nail, with its accompanying sign, and to teach them the order
of prayer, and to prepare them in all things to receive further
instructions at the veil.  Then have them report at the veil.

   JEHOVAH: It shall be done Elohim.  Peter, James, and John, go
down to the man Adam and his posterity in the Terrestrial World,
and give unto them the Law of Consecration, in connection with
the Law of the Gospel and the Law of Sacrifice, and cause them to
receive it by covenant.  Give unto them the second Token of the
Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip, or sure sign of the
nail, with its accompanying sign.  Teach them the Order of Prayer
and prepare them in all things to receive further instruction at
the veil.  Then report at the veil.

   PETER: It shall be done Jehovah.  Come James and John, let us go
down.

   LAW OF CONSECRATION

   PETER: A couple will now come to the altar (the witness couple
come forward and they kneel at the altar as before.  We are
instructed to give unto you the Law of Consecration as contained
in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants (picks up Doctrine and
Covenants from the altar, in connection with the Law of the
Gospel and the Law of Sacrifice which you have already received.
It is that you do consecrate yourselves, your time, talents and
everything with which the Lord has blessed you, or with which he
may bless you, to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, for the building up of the Kingdom of God on the earth
and for the establishment of Zion.

   All Arise (patrons all stand up.  Each of you bring your right
arm to the square.

   You and each of you covenant before God, angels and these
witnesses at this altar that you will observe and keep the Law of
Consecration as contained in this the book of Doctrine and
Covenants.  It is that you do consecrate yourselves, your time,
talents and everything with which the Lord has blessed you or
with which he may bless you, to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, for the building up of the Kingdom of God on
the earth and for the establishment of Zion.

   Each of you bow your heads and say yes.

   BRETHREN and SISTERS: (all bow their head Yes.)

   PETER That will do (patrons all sit down)

   SECOND TOKEN OF THE MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD

   The Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail

   PETER: (the Officiator demonstrates the token with the Brother
at the altar We will now give you the second token of the
Melchizedek Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the
Nail, with its accompanying sign.  This token is given by clasping
the right hands interlocking the little finger, and placing the
tip of the forefinger on the center of the wrist, in this manner
(shows the audience the token.  We desire all to receive it.  All
arise.

   The witness couple stand up and return to their seats as the
patrons all stand and each one receives the secret grip from on
of the temple workers who circulate through the rows of patrons

   If any of you have not received this token you will please raise
your hand.

   This token has a name and a sign but no penalty is mentioned.
However, you will be under just as sacred obligation of secrecy
in connection with this token and sign as you are with the other
tokens and signs of the Holy Priesthood which you have received in
the Temple this day.  The name of this token will not be given to
you at this stage of the Endowment, but it will be given later
on.

   The Officiator demonstrates the sign.

   The sign is made by raising both hands high above the head, and
while lowering the hands repeating aloud the words:

   Pay lay ale
 Pay lay ale
 Pay lay ale

   The Officiator raises and lowers his hands three times in
synchonysm with the words.

   When Adam was driven out of the Garden of Eden, he built an altar
and offered prayer, and these are the words he used, Which
interpreted are: "Oh God, hear the words of my mouth." repeated
three times.*

   We desire all to receive it.  All arise (patrons all stand up.
Each of you make the sign of the second token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail by
raising both hands high above the head, and by lowering your
hands to your sides, while repeating the words of the prayer.

   BRETHREN and SISTERS: (Patrons all make the sign by raising and
lowering their hands three times while reciting the words in
unison Pay lay ale, Pay lay ale, Pay lay ale.

   PETER:That will do (patrons all sit down.)

   A lecture will next be given, which summarizes the instructions,
ordinances and covenants, and also the tokens with their key
words, signs and penalties, pertaining to the endowment which you
have thus far received.  You should try to remember and keep in
mind all that you have heard and seen and may yet hear and see in
this Temple this day.  The purpose of this lecture is to assist
you to remember that which has been taught you this day.  You must
keep in mind that you are under a solemn obligation never to
speak, outside of these walls, of the things you see and hear in
this sacred place.

   LECTURE BEFORE THE VEIL

   Lecturer: Brethren and sisters, these Endowments as herein
administered, long withheld from the children of men, pertain to
the dispensation of the fulness of times and have been revealed
to prepare the people for exaltation.

   (The Lecturer explains to the patrons what they have gone
through, from the Washing and Anointing Room to the time they
receive this lecture.  He mentions that they have received the
keys of the Priesthood contained in the Endowments.

   These are what are termed the mysteries of Godliness and they
will enable you to understand the expression of Jesus made prior
to his betrayal - This is life eternal, that they might know
thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.
May God bless you all.  Amen.

   Another translation of these words, from Biblical Hebrew, is
"Wonderful Lucifer" repeated three times.  See Strong's
Concordance, Hebrew Dictionary section, words #6382 and #1966.
Note that on page 27 it is Lucifer who answers Adam's prayer

   THE PRAYER CIRCLE

   PETER: We will now teach you the "True Order of Prayer".  The
witness couple will now come forward and stand at the head of the
altar.  Six or seven other couples will come forward and form a
circle around the altar (the tape recording stops while the
witness couple and several other couples at random come forward
and arrange themselves in a circle of couples around the altar,
men on the right of their partners..

   tape resumes

   John will instruct and lead in the prayer circle (the Officiator
acts as John, pantomiming the tape recording.

   John: If any of you have unkind feelings towards any member
of this circle, you are invited to withdraw, that the Spirit of
the Lord may be unrestrained.  In this circle, we are required to
make all the signs and penalties of the Holy Priesthood.

   (The Officiator and patrons in the prayer circle all make the
signs and penalties as instructed.

   We will begin by making the sign of the first token of the
Aaronic Priesthood, the sign is made by raising the right hand to
the square, the palm forward, the fingers close together, and the
thumb extended.  This is the sign.  The execution of the penalty is
represented by placing the right thumb under the left ear,
drawing the thumb quickly across the throat to the right ear, and
dropping the hand to the side.  The name of this token is the "New
Name".

   We will now make the sign of the second token of the Aaronic
Priesthood by bringing the right hand forward, with the hand in
cupping shape, the right arm forming a square.  The left arm being
raised to the square.  This is the sign.  The execution of the
penalty is represented by placing the right hand on the left
breast, drawing the hand quickly across the body, and dropping
the hand to the side.  The name of this token is the first given
name of the person for whom you are officiating today.

   We will now make the sign of the first token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, or sign of the nail, by bringing the left hand in
front of you, the hand in cupping shape, the left arm forming a
square.  The right hand is also brought forward, the palm down,
the fingers close together, the thumb extended, and the thumb is
placed over the left hip.  This is the sign.  The execution of the
penalty is represented by drawing the thumb quickly across the
body and dropping the hands to the sides.  The name of this token
is "The Son" meaning the son of God.

   We will now make the sign of the second token of the Melchizedek
Priesthood, the Patriarchal Grip, or sure sign of the Nail, by
raising both hands high above the head, and while lowering the
hands repeating aloud the words, Pay lay ale; Pay lay ale; Pay
lay ale.

   The sisters will please veil your faces.  The brethren will each
take the sisters at your left by the right hand in the Patriarchial
Grip.  Each of you will raise your left arm to the square and
place your left elbow on the shoulder or arm of the person on
your left.  You will please repeat the words of the prayer.

   (At this point the tape recording stops and the Officiator
actually speaks.  He first carefully checks and adjusts the
position of all patrons in he prayer circle.  Then he kneels at
the Altar inside the circle, facing forward and offers the
prayer.  The Officiator pauses regularly to allow the patrons in
the circle to repeat his words.

   A typical prayer would be as follows:

   Our Eternal Heavenly Father:

   We thank Thee for the privilege of coming to the Temple
 this day and participating in these sacred ordinances
 which are essential to these deceased individuals.  We
 ask you to bless our Prophet, Spencer W.  Kimball, to
 bless the Temple Presidency, and all those who serve
 with them....  (Many other topics may be covered,
 especially the missionaries, missionary programs and
 work, geneological work...  We ask Thee Heavenly Father
 to look with favor upon all those whose names are
 contained on this altar* this day.  We ask Thy healing
 blessing to manifest in all their various needs, to
 restore health and strength to body,mind, and spirit.
 We ask Thee to bless all those who are participating
 here tonight and see them safely home to their
 destination.  We ask you to watch over their families and
 loved ones until they arrive home, in the name of Jesus
 Christ, Amen.

   (Tape recorder resumes, with Officiator and his aide standing
front and center facing the patrons.

   PETER The Sisters will unveil their faces and the Brethren and
Sisters in the circle will return to their seats (patrons return
to their seats.

   We will now uncover the Veil.

   The Officiator and aide take appropriate action to expose a veil
segment to the audience.  The Officiator continues to pantomime
the tape, using a pointer to identify the marks.

   Brethren and Sisters, This is the veil of the Temple.  We will now
explain to you the significance of the marks on the Veil.  These
four marks are the marks of the Holy Priesthood, and
corresponding marks are found on your individual garments.  This
is the mark of the square.  It is located on the garment over the
right breast, signifying exactness and honor in living up to all
of the covenants made in the Temple this day.  This is the mark of
the compass.  It is located in the garment over the breast,
signifying that desires, appetites and passions are to be kept
within the bounds the Lord has established, and that all truth
can be circumscribed into one great whole.  This is the navel
mark.  It is placed in the garment over the navel as a reminder of
the constant need of nourishment to body and spirit.  This is the
knee mark.  It is placed in the right leg of the garment over the
knee, and indicates that every knee shall bow and every tongue
confess that Jesus is the Christ.

   These other three marks are for convenience in working at the
veil.  Through this one the person representing the Lord puts his
right hand to test our knowledge of the tokens of the Holy
priesthood; through this one, he asks us certain questions, and
through this one, we give our answers.

   Since all of you will have to pass through the veil, we will show
you how this is done (the aide is now behind the veil to act as
the Lord.  The Officiator, acting as both Peter and Adam, gives
three taps with the mallet against the doorjam, as the tape
recording continues.

   LORD: What is wanted?

   PETER: Adam, having been true and faithful, desires further
light and knowledge by conversing with the Lord through the veil
(for and in behalf of _____, who is dead.)

   LORD: Present him at the veil and his request shall be granted.

   LORD: (Extends his right hand through the compass mark in the
veil and takes Peter by the right hand in the first token of the
Aaronic Priesthood.  What is that?

   PETER: (Acting as Adam) The first token of the Aaronic
Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I will through the veil.  You will now give the New Name
to the Lord through the Veil.

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes Peter by the right hand in the
Second Token of the Aaronic Priesthood.  What is that?

   PETER: The Second token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I will through the veil.  You will each give your own
first given name if you are going through the Temple for your own
Endowments, or the first given name of the deceased for whom you
are presiding today.

   LORD: What is that?

   PETER: The first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood or Sign of
the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I will through the veil - the Son.

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes Peter by the right hand in the
Patriarchal grip What is that?

   PETER: The second token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the
Patriarchal Grip or sure Sign of the nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PETER: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PETER: I cannot.  I have not yet received it.  For this purpose I
have come to converse with the Lord through the veil.

   LORD: You shall receive it upon the five points of fellowship
through the veil.

   PETER:The five points of fellowship are: inside of right boot by
the side of right foot, knee to knee, breast to breast, hand to
back and mouth to ear.  (Peter demonstrates the five points with
the Lord.  The Lord now gives you the name of the token, You will
then repeat it back to him through the veil, whereupon, the Lord
responds, "That is correct." The worker will then give three raps
with the mallet - like this (Officiator taps with the mallet,
and the Lord will ask:

   LORD: What is wanted?

   PETER: Adam, having conversed with the Lord through the veil,
desires now to enter his presence.  The Lord then takes Adam by
the right hand through the opening in the veil and says:

   LORD: Let him enter.

   PETER: The Lord then admits Adam into the Celestial Kingdom.  We
desire all to enter his presence.

   (The Officiator, who until now has not spoken to the audience,
now gives instructions for orderly movement, row by row, of the
patrons into the Telestial Room, where the actual veil is
located.  The patrons then proceed to move to the Telestial Room
and take up seats there.  Still segregated, women on the left, men
on the right.  The entire front of this room, plus extra space to
both sides is filled with approximately 50 veil segments [Los
Angels Temple].  Patrons are called from their seats in groups of
8-10 by the Officiator [still segregated by sex] to the veil
area, where they are assigned to a veil section in turn and then
introduced at the veil.

   Three persons are involved at each veil ceremony: the VEIL
WORKER, who represents the Lord behind the veil; the PATRON, who
is going through the ceremony to obtain entrance into the
Celestial Room, representing the Celestial Kingdom, located
behind the veil; and the INTRODUCER who helps the patron and
introduces him to the Lord.  All Veil Workers are men, but the
veil segments are divided between men and women patrons and women
INTRODUCERS help women Patrons.

   CEREMONY AT THE VEIL

   (As the Patron approaches the veil, the Introducer takes the
Patron's nameslip.  The Introducer taps 3 times on the veil
framework with a small mallet.)

   The Veil Worker parts the veil opening slightly with his right
hand.

   LORD: What is Wanted?

   (The Introducer holds up the Patron's nameslip for the Veil
Worker to read while he is stating the introductions.

   INTRODUCER: Adam, having been true and faithful in all things,
desires further light and knowledge by conversing with the Lord
through the veil (for and in behalf of ____, who is dead).

   (The Veil Worker reads the nameslip and notes if the alternate
New Name has been given [The name of the First Token of the
Aaronic Priesthood], and the first given name of the deceased
[the name of the 2nd Token of the Aaronic Priesthood].
No communication is permitted between the Veil Worker and the
Introducer or the Patron except the specified dialogue.  If the
patron makes a mistake, the Introducer immediately corrects him,
and the patron restates the correction.  If the Introducer misses
the mistake, the Veil Worker (Lord) stops, or breaks contact and
repeats the same question to indicate an error was made.

   The Veil Worker extends his right hand through the compass mark
on the veil, takes the patron by the right hand in the first
token of the Aaronic Priesthood described above.

LORD: Present him at the Veil and his request shall be granted.

   LORD: What is that?

   PATRON: The first token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, through the veil.  (Gives the new name)

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes patron's hand in the Second
Token of the Aaronic Priesthood.) What is that?

   PATRON: The second token of the Aaronic Priesthood.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, through the veil.  (Gives the first given name)

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes patron's right hand in the
First Token of the Melchizedek Priesthood.) What is that?

   PATRON: The first token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, or sign
of the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, through the veil - The Son

   LORD: (breaks contact, then takes the patron's hand in the
Patriarchal Grip What is that?

   PATRON: The second token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, The
Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I cannot.  I have not yet received it.  For this purpose I
have come to converse with the Lord through the Veil.

   LORD: You shall receive it upon the five points of fellowship,
through the veil (Patron and Veil Worker embrace in the five
points of fellowship through the veil.

   This is the name of the token - Health in the navel, marrow in
the bones, strength in the loins and in the sinews, power in the
priesthood be upon me and upon my posterity through all
generations of time and throughout all eternity.

   LORD: What is that?

   PATRON: The second token of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the
Patriarchal Grip or Sure Sign of the Nail.

   LORD: Has it a name?

   PATRON: It has.

   LORD: Will you give it to me?

   PATRON: I will, upon the five points of fellowship through the
veil - Health in the navel, marrow in the bones, strength in the
loins and in sinews, power in the priesthood be upon me and upon
my posterity through all generations of time and throughout all
eternity.

   LORD: That is correct.

   (The patron and the Veil Worker break their embrace and withdraw
their arms.  The Introducer gives three taps with the mallet on
the framework.

   LORD: What is wanted?

   INTRODUCER: (parts the veil slightly with right hand Adam,
having conversed with the Lord through the veil, desires now to
enter his presence.

   (The Veil Worker parts the Veil, takes the Patron by the right
hand with his right hand, and while guiding the Patron through
the Veil opening says:

   LORD: (Solemnly Let him enter!

   The Patron then passes by the Veil Worker, normally with a
momentary thank you - greeting, and moves on into the Celestial
Room* - which completes the Endowment Ceremony.

   The Celestial Room is an elegantly furnished sitting room where
patrons may stand or sit for a few minutes to wait for spouses,
friends or associates to come through the veil.  Conversation is
permitted only in quiet whispers.  This is the only opportunity a
Mormon ever has to ask a question about the Temple ceremonies.
It is supposed to be a place to meditate, or seek answers to
problems or inspiration.  In actual practice patrons are not
permitted to remain in the Celestial room for more than a few
minutes.  Rarely is anyone available to answer questions or
discuss a problem.  It is very business like an efficiently
operated, like a production line.

   Patrons move from the Celestial room back downstairs to the
locker room, still wearing all the Temple clothing.  There the
patron removes his temple clothing and puts on his normal
clothing and is free to leave at his leasure.  There is a
comfortable waiting room near the entrance where he may await
spouse and friends.

   TEMPLE MARRIAGE FOR TIME AND ETERNITY

   A typical Temple contains from six to ten or more Sealing Rooms
where marriages and sealings are performed for the living and the
dead.  Sealings are performed for couples already married, living
or dead, to extend their marriage to eternity.  On a typical
Saturday in Los Angeles anywhere from 60 to 90 marriages and
sealings may be performed, mostly for young couples.  The Sealing
Rooms are elegantly furnished and decorated.  The walls are lined
with chairs and a beautiful altar is in the center.  The
Officiator for this ceremony is a Temple Sealer, who is supposed
to be an especially spiritual person.  The actual ritual or
"ordinance" takes approximately two or three minutes to recite.
When marriages or sealings for the living are performed they are
normally preceded by a discourse or instruction - especially for
the wedding couple, stressing the great significance of this
ceremony to the eternal destiny and earthly life of the family.
The room is often filled with up to 40 friends and family of the
wedding couple who must also have Temple Recommends, and who have
come to be with them - all of them dressed in white Temple
attire.

   There were approximately 40 persons at the sealing of my wife and
children to myself (the order of the Priesthood is that wife and
children are sealed to the father).  After the preliminary
message, two "witnesses" are seated in a special position of
honor and the bride and groom kneel on opposite sides of the
elegantly upholstered altar and join right hands in the
Patriarchal grip previously described.

   THE MARRIAGE CEREMONY

   (The Sealer stands at the head to the altar and pronounces the
ceremony.)

   SEALER Brother _____ (acting as proxy for ____ who is dead), do
you take Sister ____ [maiden name (acting as proxy for ____ who
is dead) by the right hand and receive her unto yourself to be
your lawful and wedded wife for time and for all eternity, with a
covenant and promise that you will observe and keep all the laws,
rites and ordinances pertaining to this Holy Order of Matrimony
in the new and everlasting Covenant, and this you do in the
presence of God, angels and these witnesses of your own free
will and choice?

   Brother:Yes.

   SEALER Sister ____ [maiden name (acting as proxy for ____ who
is dead), do you take Brother _____ (acting as proxy for _____,
who is dead) by the right hand and give yourself to him to be his
lawful and wedded wife, and for him to be your lawful and wedded
husband, for time and for all eternity, with a covenant and
promise that you will observe and keep all the laws, rites and
ordinances pertaining to this Holy Order of Matrimony in the new
and everlasting Covenant: and this you do in the presence of God,
angels and these witnesses of your own free will and choice?

   SEALER By virtue of the Holy Priesthood and the authority
vested in me, I pronounce you ______, and ______, legally and
lawfully husband and wife for time and for all eternity, and I
seal upon you the blessings of the holy resurrection with power
to come forth in the morning of the first resurrection clothed in
glory, immortality and eternal lives, and seal upon you the
blessings of kingdoms, thrones, principalities, powers,
dominions, and exaltations, with all the blessings of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, and say unto you, be fruitful nd multiply an
replentish the earth, that you may have joy an rejoicing in the
day of the Lord Jesus Christ.  All these blessings, together with
all the blessings appertaining unto new and everlasting
covenant, and I seal upon you by virtue of the Holy Priesthood,
through your faithfulness, in the name of the Father, and of the
son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen.

   (The parties then kiss each other over the altar which ends the
ceremony.  No exchange of rings is included in the ceremony, but
may be done after the ceremony.  The couple is then congratulated
by their guests and the Sealer and the party leaves to change to
street clothing.

   SEALING OF CHILDREN TO PARENTS CEREMONY

   Married couples, usually converts, who are being sealed often
have minor children.  These children are normally sealed to their
parents immediately following the Sealing ceremony of the parents
to each other.  The children may not be present for the parent's
sealing, but are brought in, dressed in white, while the parents
are still kneeling at the altar.  The parents are moved to the
ends of the rectangular altar and the children kneel along the
sides where the parents were.  The parents join hands in the
Patriarchal grip and the Children place their right hand in the
top of the parents hands, starting with the oldest child.  The
Officiator then stands behind the father and pronounces the
ceremony

   SEALER By the authority of the Holy Priesthood, I seal you
_____ (acting as proxy for and in behalf of ______), to your
father _____ ant to your mother _____, for time and all eternity,
as an heir (or heirs) (with all the children) as though you were
born in the new and everlasting covenant, in the name of the
Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen.

   Other family sealings are performed in a similar manner on
occasion.  A member of the wedding couple could be sealed to his
or her parents at this time, or have their parents sealed and act
as proxy for the appropriate parent.

   "Sealing Sessions" are conducted nearly every evening in the
Temple in which a group of four couples and an Officiator will
perform approximately 200 to 300 proxy sealings in about two
hours.  These are very business like and efficiently conducted
working sessions, which produce over stressed knees and barks
among the participants.

   CONCLUSION

   The Mormon Temple ceremonies have been presented here almost in
their entirety and very nearly "word perfect" for the instruction
and information of honest investigators looking into the deepest
teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
(Mormons).  Those readers who are offended of disturbed by this
objective and truthful presentation of this information are asked
to consider this: darkness flees from light, error flees from
truth, deceit and deception flees from honesty and integrity.
Perhaps you should re-evaluate your commitment to light, truth,
honesty and integrity as opposed to blind, mindless obedience to
the precepts of men.  The Apostle Paul told the saints in
Ephesus, "For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in
the Lord, walk as children of light ...proving what is acceptable
unto the Lord.  And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works
of darkness, but rather reprove them.  For it is a shame to even
speak of those things which are done of them in secret, but all
things that are reproved are made manifest by the light: for
whatsoever doth make manifest is light." (Ephesians 5:8,10-13)

   Brethren and Sisters, we invite you to come out of secret works
of darkness into the wonderful light of Jesus, the Light of the
World and Savior of every soul who will abandon man made
churchianity and come to Him for Salvation and Redemption.
Praise the Lord, He is faithful to His Word - to SAVE all who
will accept His matchless grace by faith in Him.

     Chuck Sackett

  For more information see below:

This file has been brought to you by the ministry of the;

Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS, (SMCIS)
(301) 862-3160 HST

P.O. Box 463
California, MD 20619

Sysop:  Buggs Bugnon
