CUL:17 Points of the True Church  by James White

   The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints prints a small card
that is normally entitled "Seventeen points of the True Church." At
times the front of the card will read "Does it meet the Test?" Whatever
the form, many Christians have been handed this card. What of its
claims? Are the 17 listed points true? Do the claims made by the LDS
Church stand the test of the Bible?

   This information sheet will examine, briefly, the claims made by
this little card. It is not intended to be an in-depth doctrinal
treatise on each point, as the card hardly attempts to be, either.
Instead, it is meant to give the Christian reader more background into
just what the Mormon Church is claiming, and how this does not in any
way reflect the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles as
recorded in the Word of God, the Bible. We will follow the outline of
the card itself. (Some cards list more or fewer points. This card seems
to be the most prevalent).

   #1. Christ organized the Church. Ephesians 4:11-14.

   This is true. However, we might ask our Mormon friends, since
Ephesians 4:11 lists evangelists and pastors, where are these "offices"
in the LDS Church? Since "apostles" in the original Greek language
refers simply to a "sent one," does it not make sense to understand
this to refer to missionaries, the very ones who, like Paul, and
Apollos, spread the word concerning Christ throughout the entire known
world? Should we not also point out that the very same book here quoted
(Ephesians) also says in chapter 3, verse 21, that God would receive
glory "in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without
end"? How does this square with the Mormon teaching that the Church of
Jesus Christ disappeared after only a few years?

   #2. The true church must bear the name of Jesus Christ. Ephesians
5:23.

   Exactly how Ephesians 5:23 relates to this is difficult to say. At
any rate, the point normally made by Mormons in regard to this is that
the name on the letterhead of your church must include the phrase
"Jesus Christ." Just how official names are involved in saving someone
is again not clear. Biblically, the Church is called the Church of
Christ. It is also called the Body of Christ. Does that mean we should
make sure the phrase "Body of Christ" is on our letterheads, also? Or
is it more consistent to see that the Church as it is expressed
universally is the Church of Christ, and the local assembly takes the
name that would best describe it - such at the Church at Rome, the
Church of the Thessalonicans, the Church at Philippi? The Bible nowhere
commands us to attach a specific name to our local congregation.
Christians are Christians whether they worship in the same building and
in the exact same manner or not.

   #3. The true church must have a foundation of Apostles and Prophets.
Ephesians 2:19-20.

   This, again, is true, as far as it goes. Unfortunately, the LDS
Church takes it too far. The Mormons takes this to mean that the true
church must have official positions entitled "Apostle" and "Prophet,"
which, of course, they have. This is not what Ephesians 2:19-20
teaches. First, the context includes verses 21 and 22, and these must
be read also. The text actually says that the church is built on a
foundation. Stop there. The word "built" as translated in the King
James Version translates the Greek participle epoikodomethentes, which,
properly syntaxed is translated "having been built." It is an aorist
passive participle. It refers to a past action, one that (in this case)
has been completed. To say that today we must continue to build the
foundation of apostles and prophets is to mis-understand the text.

   Next, we would like to point out that the Bible identifies Jesus
Christ as the foundation (1 Corinthians 3:10-11). The Church is built
upon this foundation, and is continually growing unto an "holy temple
in the Lord." The question must be asked, how many times does one lay a
foundation? If one is continually laying a foundation, how will the
house be built? The answer is obvious. The Mormon Church is still
trying to lay a foundation that was laid two thousand years ago. Since
this is so, it is obvious to see that in this passage Paul is referring
to something other than a continuing office of apostle and prophet.

   The phrase "of the apostles and prophets" is in a genitive
construction that can easily give the sense that the foundation of the
apostles and prophets is Jesus Christ Himself. This would be completely
consistent with Paul's use of themelios (foundation) in other letters.
Again we see how examining the actual text of the Bible we can avoid
errors such as the kind propogated by the Mormon Church.

   One final thing. In the lists of "offices" in the church (e.g., 1
Corinthians 12:28), the "apostles" are placed before the "prophets."
Aside from the fact that there were obviously many "prophets" in the
Church (rather than the one of the LDS Church), it is clear that the
Mormon heirarchy of Prophet then Apostles is backwards, at least
Biblically speaking. It is also plain to see that "apostles"
(literally, "sent ones") and "prophets" functioned quite differently
than the LDS Church believes they did.

   #4. The true church must have the same organization as Christ's
Church. Ephesians 4:11-14.

   This point overlaps with the discussion given above. We have already
pointed out that the organization the Mormon Church has forced upon the
Bible is not an accurate understanding of just how the ancient church
was organized. As examples of this have already been brought up, we
will move on to the next point.

   #5. The true church must claim divine authority. Hebrews 5:4-10.

   The Christian Church does claim divine authority, for each and every
believer, male or female, is a king and priest unto God (Revelation
1:6). However, again the LDS Church has forced its own theology upon
the Scriptures instead of allowing the Bible to be the guide. Mormon
leaders claim to have divine authority in that they have the
"Melchizedek Priesthood." Younger men are called to the "Aaronic
Priesthood," and at age 18 they can received the Melchizedek
Priesthood. Though space does not allow a complete discussion of the
topic of the priesthoods, it should be pointed out that the Mormon
doctrine falls short of the truth at a number of points: 1) It ignores
the fact that there is no distinction made between male and female in
their relationship with Christ. This is not to say that in the home God
does not ordain a certain order, as He obviously does. However, to
claim the stupendous things that the Mormon Church does for its
"priesthood" and yet deny those privileges to women (and blacks for 148
years) is certainly outside Biblical teaching.

   2) It ignores the fact that the Aaronic priesthood was fulfilled and
done away with at the cross of Calvary. When Christ died, the veil in
the Temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. The function of Aaronic
priests, that of making animal sacrifices and, once a year, going
through the veil to offer the atonement for the nation, was finished
for all time. The intermediacy of a priesthood was done away with
because of the immediate access each believer has to the throne of
grace through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. To re-establish an
organized, intermediate priesthood as the LDS Church has done, when God
has done away with it at the cross, is nothing short of blasphemous!
Though it is truly amazing to anyone who has studied the New Testament
book of Hebrews, Joseph Smith once wrote, "...it is generally supposed
that sacrifice was entirely done away when the Great Sacrifice [i.e.,
the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus] was offered up, and that there will be
no necessity for the ordinance of sacrifice in the future: but those
who assert this are certainly not acquainted with the duties,
privileges and authority of the priesthood...These sacrifices, as well
as every ordinance belonging to the Priesthood, will, when the Temple
of the Lord shall be built, and the sons of Levi purified, be fully
restored and attended to in all their powers, ramifications, and
blessings." (Documentary History of the Church, volume 4 page 211).
Again we see the depth of error that can be attained by ignoring the
Biblical teachings on a subject.

   3) It ignores the Biblical fact that there is but one High Priest
(the Mormon Church has many), and only one worthy to hold the
Melchizedek Priesthood, that being Jesus Christ (Hebrews 7:24-25). To
claim to hold that priesthood is an affront to the person of the Son of
God.

   #6. The true church must have no paid ministry. Isaiah 45:13, 1
Peter 5:2.

   The reader is asked to examine the two references given to gain yet
another example of out-of-context reading. Neither passage has anything
to do with paid or unpaid ministers. One has to do with Cyrus, king of
Persia, and the other with the motivation of the heart of the minister.
Also note that the sections of the New Testament that directly address
this issue are ignored. Paul clearly taught that a minister had the
right to pay in return for his work (1 Corinthians 9:1-14). Paul calls
it a "right" of the minister to reap material benefit from those who
receive spiritual leadership. It might be pointed out that the
leadership of the LDS Church in Salt Lake certainly do not live
unrewarded. How does this square with their teaching?

   #7. The true church must baptize by immersion. Matthew 3:13-16.

   We agree. Again, however, the LDS Church goes beyond what is written
and adds to this the ideas that 1) baptism is for remission of sins
(when Jesus was baptized, was it for remission of sins? We are forgiven
of our sins because of the blood of Christ, not the water of a
baptistry, 1 Peter 1:18-21), and 2) that the only persons "authorized"
to baptize are those who hold the "Aaronic" priesthood. This error has
already been discussed in #5 above.

   #8. The true church must bestow the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands. Acts 8:14-17.

   Aside from the fact that it is Holy Spirit, not Holy Ghost, it must
be pointed out that again the LDS Church is ignoring the majority
witness of Scripture. Laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy
Spirit occurs only three times in the New Testament: Acts 8:17 as a
sign of unity between the Jewish and Gentile believers, Acts 9:17 as an
identification of Saul, and Acts 19:6 where the baptism they had
undergone was not Christian baptism but the baptism of John. In the
vast majority of cases no mention is made of any special ceremony of
laying on of hands being necessary for the Holy Spirit to come upon
someone. Laying on of hands does show unity and support of an
individual, and as such there is nothing wrong with it. But the
Scriptures teach that the Holy Spirit comes into a person's life at the
point of conversion (Romans 8:9, Acts 10:44-48), not at some secondary
time later on. If this were not so, then Romans 8:9 would be false, as
it identifies the Holy Spirit as that which makes a person Christ's.
(see also Ephesians 1:10-14).

   #9. The true church must practice divine healing. Mark 3:14-15.

   One of the gifts of the Spirit is that of healing (1 Corinthians
12:28). Of course, not all have this gift (v. 29). The actual operation
of the gift is seen to be a corollary to prayer, as the special gift of
touching someone was of apostolic authority, not present today. We have
seen many people healed through the power of prayer in the Christian
church, as God still is the great physician, and He still works
miracles. However, to claim to have God on a string, and have Him in
your control so as to be able to heal anyone, is not Biblical. Even the
great apostle Paul had to pray that a close friend would not die, as
his gift was for particular uses, not personal gain (Philippians
2:25-30, 2 Timothy 4:20).

   #10. The true church must teach that God and Jesus Christ are
separate and distinct individuals. John 17:11 and John 20:17.

   The true church must first teach that there is one true God. The
number of passages that teach this is astounding. Just for an example
see Deuteronomy 4:35, 39, 6:4, 32:39, 1 Chronicles 16:25-26, 2 Samuel
7:22 (1 Chron. 17:20), Psalm 86:10, Isaiah 43:10, 44:6-8, 44:24,
45:5-6, 46:9, John 17:3, 1 Corinthians 8:4-6 and so on and so on.
Mormonism teaches that there are many, many Gods, while God denies any
such thing (Isaiah 44:8). Hence, Mormonism is off track right from the
start. This is the most basic revelation of God, and when one misses
it, nothing after that will make any sense. It is true that the Father
is not the Son nor is the Son the Father. As far as the above statement
reflects this, it is true. However, the Mormon viewpoint is that the
Father and Son are two separate and distinct individuals, and hence two
separate and distinct gods! (see Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
page 370). This is completely contradicted by the Bible, and is based
upon the error of polytheism. Mormons cannot understand the Christian
doctrine of the Trinity because they reject the Bible's teaching of
monotheism (one God).

   #11. The true church must teach that God and Jesus Christ have
bodies of flesh and bone. Luke 24:36-39 and Acts 1:9-11.

   Here the Mormons take two references to the fact that Jesus Christ
became flesh (John 1:14) and infer from them that God the Father also
has a body of flesh and bone. What does God say about this? "You
thought that I was just like you; I will reprove you, and state the
case in order before your eyes" (Psalm 50:21, NASB). "...for I am God,
and not man, the Holy One in the midst of thee..." (Hosea 11:9). "God
is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he
should repent." (Numbers 23:19). Instead, Jesus taught that God was
spirit (John 4:24). God is not limited to time and space as we are, but
rather is eternal (Psalm 90:2), unchanging (Malachi 3:6), and
omnipresent (Jeremiah 23:24, 2 Chronicles 6:18). What Mormons need to
realize is that the gospel is not that man can become God, but that God
became a man.

   #12. The officers must be called by God. Hebrews 5:4, Exodus 28:1,
Exodus 40:13-16.

   As the Old Testament passages here quoted have little to do with the
New Testament Church, we will look at Hebrews 5:4 (which also has
little to do with the subject at hand, but its closer than the
others!). First, we agree that the leaders of the church should be
called by God, and, in the Christian church, they are. However, again
the Latter-day Saints are seen to be adding to what is written. The
Mormons interpret this within their framework of "priesthood
authority," again leading to error. It might be asked whether their
Aaronic priests are called in the same way as was Aaron? A quick look
at Exodus chapter 29 and Leviticus chapter 8 will reveal that they
certainly are not!

   #13. The true church must claim revelation from God. Amos 3:7.

   This position can only be maintained by ignoring what comes after
Amos 3:7. Luke 16:16 says "The law and the prophets were until John;
since that time the kingdom of God is preached..." The New Testament
presents a very different picture. Jesus Christ, the final and complete
revelation of God (Hebrews 1:1-3) has made "further revelation"
obsolete and unnecessary. To claim to have such a "revelation" is to
say that Jesus really wasn't what and who He said He was, and who the
Bible describes Him as being. In actuality, it is the simple fact that
Mormonism's teachings cannot be supported from the Bible that drives
the leadership to find another source of authority. Everything that has
ever claimed to be "further revelation" has failed the test of
Scripture, including the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and
the Pearl of Great Price.

   #14. The true church must be a missionary church. Matthew 28:19-20.

   We heartily agree at this point, and are forced to ask why it is
that the Mormon Church has thrived on taking people from other churches
rather than trailblazing into unknown areas, as the Christian church
has done for hundreds of years?

   #15. The true church must be a restored church. Acts 3:19-20.

   An examination of the text chosen to represent this claim will show
just how weak this argument is. Acts chapter 3 is not in any way
discussing the Church. This is seen in two ways. First, verse 21 says
that the "restitution of all things" was "spoken by the mouth of all
his holy prophets since the world began." As Paul points out in
Colossians 1:25- 27, the mystery of the church was not made known to
the past ages and generations (see also 1 Peter 1:10-12), hence this
certainly is not talking about the church. Second, the prophets spoke
of the restoration of Israel to its own land, and the restoration of
the theocracy under David's Son. This is what Peter is discussing in
Acts 3. Besides all of this, we must ask when it was that Christ
returned, as verse 19 says this would happen at the "restitution of all
things." As we pointed out, the true church founded by Christ did not
fail (see #2-4 above).

   #16. The true church must practice baptism for the dead. 1
Corinthians 15-16 and 29.

   The Christian church had never practiced baptism for the dead in the
sense that the LDS Church wants us to believe. They are forced to take
1 Corinthians 15:29 out of its context and force their own peculiar
meaning on it. First, the Bible does not teach that baptism saves
anyone (even 1 Peter 3:21, upon close examination, does not do so),
hence it certainly would not be needed to "redeem the dead" as Mormons
put it. 1 Corinthians 15:29 is found in the "resurrection chapter." The
needed clue to its meaning is found in the language in which it was
originally written, that being Greek. The word "for" is the Greek term
huper. It refers to the taking of someone's place, or to substitution.
Baptism "for" the dead is not baptism of a living person in behalf of
or for the benefit of a dead person, but rather the immersion of a
living person in the place of or into the former position of a now
deceased person. It is the baptism of a new convert who takes the place
in the church of one who has died. The baptism of a young child, for
example, the day after an elderly saint of the Lord has passed away
could be viewed as the younger person coming to "fill" the position of
the person who has gone home to be with the Lord. This vein of thinking
is carried on in the context when Paul says in the next verse, "Why are
we also in danger every hour?" (NASB). Being a Christian in those days
was a dangerous business. Paul's whole point in the entire passage has
to do with the fact that if the dead are not raised (v. 12) there is
absolutely no point in bringing new converts into this dangerous
position through baptism when there is no future life to promise them,
no reward in the future for their faithfulness. Why not just let
everyone die off without filling their positions in the church, since,
if there is no resurrection, "we are of all men most to be pitied" (v.
19). Belief in baptizing the living to somehow help in saving the dead
demonstrates a complete misunderstanding of the New Testament teaching
concerning the nature, extent, and purpose of salvation.

   #17. By their fruits ye shall know them. Matthew 7:20.

   Indeed, but that is not the only test we are given, thankfully. We
know people of many religions, and many of them are kind, decent,
moral, loving people. Does this mean that they are all right? Of course
not. At the same time, we know people of many different religions that
are mean, nasty, unloving, hateful, dishonest, etc. and etc. Does that
mean those religions are false? No, it doesn't. We know Mormons that
fit in both the above categories. Does this prove Mormonism true or
false? Neither. Instead, we are given other tests to utilize. The main
one is, what do you teach concerning Jesus Christ (e.g., Colossians
2:8-9)? The Mormon Church teaches that Jesus is the spirit brother of
Lucifer (see, for example, Ensign, June 1986, page 25). This is
completely untrue, as the Bible says Jesus created all things (John
1:3, Colossians 1:16-17), which would include Lucifer (Ezekiel
28:13-15). Hence, how can the Creator be the spirit-brother of his
creation? Such is nonsense. The fruit of this teaching is falsehood
concerning the person of Jesus Christ. Again, even using the test
prescribed by the LDS Church, we find Mormonism wanting.

   This little card ends with, "Why are these things important? HEBREWS
13:8." Yes, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever. How
different from the Mormon teaching that God was once a man who evolved
(or progressed) to Godhood! Much more important than this is the dire
warning of the Bible: "But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach
any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you,
let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, If any man
preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be
accursed." (Galatians 1:8-9). Those are serious words indeed, and the
LDS people would do well to heed them.

   James White
