                    The Jesus of Christianity
                               Vs
                     The Jesus of Mormonism

     The Jesus WE KNOW contrasted to the "Jesus" of Mormonism. 
The one true Jesus of the BIBLE, of all eternity God the Son, who 
died that we may have eternal life; who paid the price of all 
sins; who has entered our lives and is walking with us in a 
personal relationship day by day -- is not known in Mormonism. 
The Jesus of Mormonism is an entirely different "Jesus". Let's 
examine what the leaders and prophets - the foundation of the 
Latter Day Saints Church - have said:
     
     "When the time came that His First-Born, the Saviour, should 
come into the world and take a tabernacle, the Father Himself 
came and favored the Spirit with a tabernacle instead of letting 
any other MAN do it. ....  The Saviour was begotten by the Father 
of His spirit, by the same being who is the Father of our 
spirits, and that is all the organic difference between Jesus 
Christ and you and me."  BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 
4:218

     "The fleshly body of Jesus required a Mother as well as a 
Father. Therefore, the Father and Mother of Jesus, according to 
the flesh, must have been associated together in the capacity of 
Husband and Wife; hence the Virgin Mary must have been, for the 
time being, the lawful wife of God the Father." ORSON PRATT, The 
Seer, pg 158

     "Christ was begotten by an immortal Father in the same way 
that mortal men are begotten by mortal fathers --- And Christ was 
born into the world as the Literal Son of this Holy Being; He was 
born in the same personal, real, and literal sense that any 
mortal son is born of a mortal father. There is nothing 
figurative about his paternity; He was begotten, conceived and 
born in the normal and natural course of events, for He is the 
Son of God, and that designation means what it says." BRUCE R. 
McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, pg 547,742

     Brigham Young, to be consistent with his "Adam-God" 
doctrine, believed Adam was the literal father of Jesus Christ:
     "When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, the Father 
had begotten him in his own likeness. He was not begotten by the 
Holy Ghost. And who is the Father? He is the first of the human 
family ... Jesus, our elder brother, was begotten in the flesh by 
the same character that was in the Garden of Eden, and who is our 
Father in Heaven." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 1:50,51

     As is evident in these statements, there is no Virgin Birth 
in Mormonism. On the other hand, the Bible clearly shows us:

Matthew  1:18   Mary with child of the Holy Spirit
         1:20   That which is conceived in her is of the Holy 
                Spirit
         1:23   Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son
Luke     1:35   The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the
                power of the Most High will overshadow you

     Further, the "Jesus" of Mormonism was married in polygamy 
and had children. This had to be so to be consistent with the 
doctrines of Joseph Smith, Junior. As Joseph reports as a 
"revelation" given him by God on July 12,1843: "I am the Lord thy 
God .. obey the instructions I am about to give unto you .. if ye 
abide not that covenant, then ye are damned; for no one can 
reject this covenant and be permitted to enter my Glory .. verily 
I say unto you, if  man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, 
and by the new and everlasting covenant .. they shall be gods .. 
And again, as pertaining to the law of the priesthood if any man 
espouses a virgin, and desire to espouse another, and the first 
give her consent, and if he espouse the second, and they are 
virgins, and have vowed to no other man, then he is justified .. 
and if he have ten virgins given unto him by the law, he cannot 
commit adultery, for they belong to him." JOSEPH SMITH, Doctrine 
& Covenants, 132:2,3,4,19,20,61,62

     "It will be borne in mind that once on a time, there was a 
marriage in Cana of Galilee, and on a careful reading of that 
transaction, it will be discovered that no less a person than 
Jesus Christ was married on that occasion." ORSON HYDE, Journal 
of Discourses, 13:259
     "How was it with Mary and Martha, and other women that 
followed Him? In old times, and it is common to this day, the 
women, even Sarah, called their husbands 'LORD' .. Jesus was the 
bridegroom at the marriage of Cana of Galilee .. We say it was 
Jesus Christ who was married, to be brought into relation whereby 
he could see his seed, before He was crucified .. I shall say 
here, that before the Saviour died, he looked upon His own 
natural children, as we look upon ours." ORSON HYDE, Journal of 
Discourses, 2:81,82
     
     The Bible states that Jesus is God the Son -- eternally 
existent with God the Father -- yet Mormon doctrine says Jesus 
was a spirit offspring of the Father; that Lucifer was the second 
spirit offspring (THEY WERE BROTHERS?!); followed by billions 
more - or each of us, for instance. We are "brothers" and 
"sisters" of Jesus Christ. Jesus is not the only begotten Son in 
Mormon Theology: "It makes me think of that second person that 
came forth in the heavens when the voice went forth: 'Who will 
redeem the earth, who will go forth and make the sacrifice for 
the earth and all things it contains ?'. The Eldest son said: 
'Here am I'; but he did not say 'send me'. But the second one, 
which was 'Lucifer, Son of the Morning', said, 'Lord, here am I, 
send me, I will redeem every son and daughter of Adam and Eve 
that lives on the earth." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 
13:282
     "The appointment of Jesus to be Saviour of the world was 
contested by one of the other sons of God. He was called Lucifer, 
Son of the Morning .... this spirit brother of Jesus desperately 
tried to become the Saviour of Mankind. MILTON R. HUNTER (First 
Council of 70) The Gospel Through the Ages, pg 15 [1958]
      "Jesus Christ is also of our species .. I have heard 
sectarian priest undertake to tell the character of the Son of 
God, and they make him half of one species and half of another, 
and I could not avoid thinking at once of a mule." BRIGHAM YOUNG, 
Journal of Discourses, 4:217
     "There is no impropriety ... in speaking of Jesus Christ as 
the elder brother of the rest of human kind." JAMES TALMAGE, 
ARTICLES OF FAITH, pg 473

     In Mormonism, Jesus was a created being: "Jesus is man's 
spiritual brother. We dwelt with Him in the spirit world as 
members of that large society of our eldest brother." MILTON R. 
HUNTER, Gospel Through the Ages, pg 21
     "The devil is a spirit son of God who was born in the 
morning of pre-existence." BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, 
"Devil", 1966 edition, pg 192
     "There are three Gods - the Father, Son and Holy Ghost." 
BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine,"God", pg 317

     The REAL JESUS, the ONLY Son of God and God the Son, is 
proclaimed throughout the BIBLE! Look up these references and 
tie-ins of Old and New testaments declaring Jesus' Divinity and 
NOT being created:

LOOK UP          and            COMPARE WITH

Psalm 24:10                    I Corinthians 2:8
Psalm 45:6,7                   Hebrews 1:8
Isaiah 8:13                    I Peter 2:8
Isaiah 40:3                    Matthew 3:3
Malachi 3:1                    Matthew 11:10
Psalm 102:27                   Hebrews 13:8
                               James 1:17
Psalm 102:25                   Colossians 1:16
Psalm 102:26                   Matthew 24:35 
                               2 Peter 3:7,10
     
     JOHN 1:1-3,14  "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 
was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning 
with God. All things were made by Him; and without Him was not 
anything made that was made ... And the Word was made flesh, and 
dwelt among us, (and we beheld His glory, the Glory as of the 
ONLY begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth."
     COLOSSIANS 1:15  "Who is the image of the invisible God, the 
firstborn of every creature" [Here 'firstborn' does not mean 
first 'spirit-child', rather a position of high honor - see verse 
18, Hebrews 12:23, revelation 1:5, and Psalm 89:27]. The next 
verses, 16 and 17, tell us, "For in Him were all things created, 
that are in heaven, and that are on the earth ... All things were 
created by Him, and for Him: And He is before all things, and by 
Him all things consist."
     HEBREWS 1:10  "Thou, Lord (Jesus), in the beginning hast 
laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of 
thine hands."
     In Isaiah 44:24 God tells us that He "stretched forth the 
heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself." Jesus, 
who IS the TRUTH and God the Father "have no lies within them" 
and are INCAPABLE OF TELLING A LIE. Jesus is God the Son, 
eternally One with the Father and the Holy Spirit, and not be 
confused. God the Son is not God the Father and God the father is 
not God the Holy Spirit, but each entity is a part of the ONE 
TRUE AND LIVING GOD.
     ISAIAH 9:6  "For unto us a child is born ... his name shall 
be called Wonderful Counselor, The Mighty God, The everlasting 
Father, The Prince of Peace."
     MICAH 5:2  "Whose goings forth have been from of old, from 
everlasting."
     MATTHEW 28:18  "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, 
'All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth."
     PHILIPPIANS 2:6-10  "Who, being in the form of God, though 
it not robbery to be equal with God: ... was made in the likeness 
of men ... became obedient unto death, even the death of the 
cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exaulted him ... That at 
the name of Jesus every knee should bow ....". 
     Compare to Isaiah 45:22,23 for if Jesus is not God, then we 
worship two (or more) Gods! The Mormons, basically, do not 
worship Jesus, or pray to Him, only "through" Him.)
     COLOSSIANS 2:9   "For in Him dwelleth the fullness of the 
Godhead bodily"
     HEBREWS 1:3   "... The express image of His person ...."
     JOHN 5:23  "That all men should honor the Son, even as they 
honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the 
Father which hath sent Him."
     JOHN 20:28  "And Thomas answered and said unto Him, 'My Lord 
and my God'"
     
     Jesus used the same descriptions of himself; I AM, ALPHA and 
OMEGA, FIRST and LAST; as used by God the Father:

JESUS                     SAYING                    GOD

JOHN        8:58           I AM         EXODUS     3:14,15
REV     22:13,16    ALPHA AND OMEGA     REV     1:8 & 21:6
REV      1:17                           REVELATION 21:6
         2:8        FIRST AND LAST      ISAIAH     44:6
        22:13                                      48:12

     Jesus is GOD the SON! Eternally God and not after, or 
created by, or a spirit child of God! Our Jesus is NOT the 
"Jesus" of Mormonism, and we are empowered, if we have accepted 
the true Jesus into our hearts, to give Thanks unto God for 
selecting us to reveal His True Son to us. HALLELUJAH and AMEN 
!!!

Computers For Christ


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
