
                 Divine Truths in the Book of Mormon 

    Anyone ÿvisited ÿby ÿa ÿMormon Missionary has ÿheard ÿthe ÿElder's 
testimony ÿconcerning the Book of Mormon:  ÿThat he knows this book is 
the ÿWord ÿof God and that the founder of the Mormon ÿChurch, ÿÿJoseph 
Smith, ÿJr., translated it by the gift and power of God.  Further, the 
prospect is encouraged sincerely to study the Book of Mormon and ÿ"The 
divine truths it contains." 
    The Book of Mormon indeed does contain a number of "divine truths", 
first set forth in the Bible, the most important of which are: 

1. GOD IS SPIRIT 

    Alma 18:28 (p. 242) - "Believest, thou that this Great Spirit, who 
is God, created all things". 

2. TRINITARIAN VIEW OF GOD 

     3 ÿNephi 11:27 (p. 422) - "Verily I say unto you, that the Father 
and ÿthe Son and the Holy Ghost are one."  ÿIn addition, ÿthree ÿclose 
associates ÿof Joseph Smith who gave testimony of the authenticity ÿof 
the Book of Mormon, close with words: "And the honor be to the Father, 
and ÿto ÿthe ÿSon and to the Holy Ghost, ÿWHICH IS ÿONE ÿGOD. ÿÿAmen." 
(emphasis added)  This endorsement is found in the front of every Book 
of ÿMormon and further documents the Book of Mormon's ÿacknowledgement 
of the triune nature of God. 

3. GOD IS UNCHANGEABLE 

    Moroni 8:18 (p. 517) - ÿ"For I know that God is not a partial God, 
neither a changeable being; ÿbut he is unchangeable from all ÿeternity 
to all eternity." 

4. NO SALVATION AFTER DEATH 

    Mosiah 3:25 ÿ(p. 141) - "And if they be evil they are consigned to 
an ÿawful view of their own guilt and abominations, ÿwhich doth ÿcause 
them ÿto ÿshrink from the presence of the Lord into a state of ÿmisery 
and endless torment, ÿfrom whence they can no more return; ÿÿtherefore 
they have drunk damnation to their own souls." 

5. ONLY TWO DESTINATIONS AFTER DEATH 

    Mosiah 16:11 ÿ(p. 166) - "If they be good, ÿto the resurrection of 
endless life and happiness; ÿand if they be evil, ÿto the resurrection 
of endless damnation." 

6. SALVATION BY CHRIST"S WORK - NOT MAN'S 

    Helaman 5:9 (p. 369) - "...remember that there is no other way nor 
means ÿwhereby ÿmen can be saved, ÿonly through the atoning ÿblood ÿof 
Jesus Christ, ÿwho shall come, yea, ÿremember that he cometh to redeem 
the world." 


    The Book of Mormon also emphasizes the need for spiritual rebirth.  
For ÿexample ÿAlma 5:14 ÿstates "And now behold, ÿI ÿask of ÿyou, ÿÿmy 
brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God?  Have ye 
received ÿhis image in your countenances?  ÿHave ye ÿexperienced ÿthis 
mighty change in your hearts?" 
    Much ÿof ÿthe ÿmajor theology set forth in the Book of ÿMormon ÿis 
indeed in harmony with orthodox Christianity.  ÿHowever, ÿmany who are 
visited by the LDS Missionaries are unaware that the present ÿtheology 
of ÿthe Mormon Church is very different from their own Book of Mormon. 
Further, ÿnot only are today's major doctrines different, ÿthey are in 
total ÿopposition with this work of Joseph Smith, ÿJr., ÿfor which ÿhe 
claimed divine inspiration. 

    Mormon ÿtheology is not contained in, ÿbut rather contradicted ÿby 
the ÿBook ÿof ÿMormon.  ÿThe members of the Mormon Church now turn ÿto 
newer ÿpublications ÿand ÿrevelations for their ÿbeliefs.  ÿÿA ÿÿbrief 
examination of some of these will document the contradictions. 

1. ÿÿMormonism today teaches "The Father has a body of flesh and bones 
as tangible as man's" (Doctrine & Covenants 130:22). 

2. ÿJoseph Smith, later in his life, flatly denied the Trinity: ÿ"Many 
men say there is one God, ÿthe Father, ÿthe Son and the Holy Ghost are 
one God!  ÿI saw that is a strange God anyhow - three in one, ÿand one 
in ÿthree!"  ÿHe further concludes that the Father, ÿSon and the ÿHoly 
Ghost ÿare not one God, ÿbut rather three Gods (History of the ÿChurch 
6:474, 476). 

3. The LDS Church no longer adheres to the unchangeable nature of God, 
but ÿrather ÿstates:  ÿ"God himself was once as we are now and ÿis ÿan 
exalted man... We have imagined and supposed that God was God from all 
eternity.  I will refute that idea and take away the veil, so that you 
may see".  (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345). 

4. ÿÿBruce ÿR. ÿMcConkie announces on page 73 ÿof his ÿwork, ÿÿ'Mormon 
Doctrine':  ÿÿ"The Lord has ordained baptism for the dead as the means 
whereby ÿall ÿhis ÿworthy children of all ages ÿcan ÿbecome ÿheirs ÿof 
salvation in his kingdom." 

5. ÿÿMormonism today informs its members that all mankind will ÿoccupy 
one of three heavenly kingdoms.  ÿThe highest is the Celestial Kingdom 
(which itself contains various levels).  ÿThis kingdom is reserved for 
all ÿfaithful Mormons and could lead to Godhood for the ÿmale ÿmembers 
there.  ÿThe middle Kingdom, the Terrestrial Kingdom, is for those who 
did ÿnot ÿaccept the gospel according to Mormonism, ÿbut who lived ÿan 
honorable ÿlife.  ÿÿThe ÿlowest or Telestial ÿKingdom ÿstill ÿcontains 
murderers, ÿÿadulterers, ÿliars and thieves.  ÿ(Doctrine ÿ& ÿCovenants 
section ÿ76).  ÿÿHell ÿin Mormonism is usually thought to ÿbe ÿonly ÿa 
temporary ÿstate of suffering, ÿwhich can be terminated through ÿself-
atonement.  ÿÿIn ÿsummary, ÿall will be resurrected and ÿreceive ÿsome 
degree of glory, according to Mormonism. 

6. Mormons believe not in the infinite atonement of Christ, but rather 
that ÿ"redemption ÿfrom ÿpersonal sins can only ÿbe ÿobtained ÿthrough 
obedience ÿto ÿthe ÿrequirements of the Gospel, ÿAND A ÿLIFE ÿOF ÿGOOD 
WORKS."  (emphasis added) (Talmage, Articles of Faith pgs. 478-479) 

    These ÿchanges ÿand contradictions contained within ÿthese ÿeasily 
available ÿLDS ÿScriptures leave no doubt as to the human, ÿÿman ÿmade 
origin of Mormonism. 
    While ÿMormons regard the Bible as the Word of God, ÿthe Bible ÿis 
actually placed lower and superseded by their other Scriptures, ÿwhich 
in addition to the Book of Mormon include the Doctrine & Covenants and 
the ÿPearl ÿof Great Price.  ÿThis devaluation of the Bible ÿis ÿfound 
within the LDS Articles of Faith, ÿin the Pearl of Great Price, ÿwhere 
it ÿis ÿstated ÿthat Mormons "believe the Bible in so ÿfar ÿas ÿit ÿis 
correctly translated." 
    God's ÿword, ÿÿthe Bible, ÿhas definitely stood the test of ÿtime, 
whereas in its short existence the Book of Mormon has not.  The Bible, 
has been used by and confirmed by archeology, - the Book of Mormon has 
not.  ÿThe Bible, ÿhas through recent ancient manuscript ÿdiscoveries, 
been ÿdemonstrated to have been transmitted and translated accurately, 
where the Book of Mormon contains nearly 4000 textual changes from the 
first ÿedition ÿin 1830 ÿto the present editions used today, ÿand ÿhas 
received further changes in the new 1981 "Triple Combination" edition. 
    The ÿpresence ÿof ÿ"Divine Truths" ÿwithin the Book of ÿMormon ÿis 
merely a result of Joseph Smith, ÿJr. ÿincorporating much of the Bible 
into his work.  (see 'The use of the Bible in the Book of Mormon by H. 
Michael ÿMarquardt).  ÿÿThus, ÿthe Book of Mormon must be regarded ÿas 
fiction, not as inspired Scripture. 
    Changes within Mormonism and the Book of Mormon make it clear that 
Mormonism is not from God.  ÿGod's word does not change.  Jesus Christ 
is the same yesterday, ÿtoday and forever (Hebrews 13:8) ÿand His Word 
shall never pass away (Psalm 119:89; Matthew 24:35).  The Jesus Christ 
who ÿshed his blood on Calvary's cross to save you is not the Jesus of 
present-day ÿMormonism.  ÿÿJesus ÿinvites all people to ÿexperience ÿa 
spiritual ÿrebirth ÿand to receive the free gift of ÿeternal ÿlife ÿby 
trusting in him alone for salvation. 

    Write ÿto us and let us share with you more information concerning 
our Risen Saviour Jesus Christ and how you can receive Him. 


 PERSONAL FREEDOM OUTREACH 

 Route 3 Weir Lake Rd., Kunkletown, PA. 18058  (215) 381-3661 
 P.O. Box 26062, Saint Louis, MO.  63136  (314) 388-2648 
 P.O. Box 30073, Phoenix, AZ.  85046  (602)867-0538 
 P.O. Box 15081, Santa Ana, CA.  92705  (714) 832-9385 



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
