I just return from a trip to Australia, and while looking through some of
the local computer magazines I spotted an interesting article in MEGACOMP,
an Aussie mag for the Amiga.  The following is a letter submitted by "The
Fallen Angel".

   As a member of the POISON (Australian) Cracking Association, I would like
to comment on how well you have covered the subjectof viruses on the Amiga.

   Every comment you have made on each virus is 100% correct.  But I would
like to point out htat after you said it might have been the MOVERS who made
the Byte Bandit Virus, I got in contact with them, and the MOVERS did not
make the Byte Bandit Virus.

   This got me asking around other Crackers to find out who had been
responsible, and eventually I found out who made it:  it was the SCA again!

   They made the Byte Bandit Virus as a follow up to the SCA Virus, because
after they came out with the SCA, other cracking and hacking associations
said that they (SCA) only had the know how to make a harmless virus.  Man,
did they prove EVERYONE Wrong!

   With the Byte Bandit, the SCA had now made the most damaging virus known
to AMIGA users throughout the world!

   They also said that there was no need now for them to make any more
viruses, as they had proved their point.  They have invented Virus Killers
to make up for creating the viruses.

   If you don't have a Virus Killer, you can still test your disks for the
SCA virus by holding donw the left mouse button when you boot up your disks.
 If you have a virus, your color screen will show a flash of GREEN for a
short time, until it gets to the DOS screen.

   I am not sure if this works with the Byte Bandit virus, as when I caught
it, I killed it with VACCINE 2.0 straight away.  The best virus killing disk
at the moment is from Discovery Software International.  It is called VIP
VIRUS INFECTION PROTECTION.  In Australia it costs $79, and you can buy it
in most computer shops.

   If you have the Byte Bandit Virus, and you are working on something, the
virus may very well crash the machine, leaving you with all your hard work
LOST.  I'm going to tell you something HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL which only a very
few Cracking Teams know about.  (Credit should go to the POISON CRACKING
TEAM, Australia.)

   If the Byte Bandit crashes your computer, hold down the LEFT ALT, LEFT
AMIGA, SPACE BAR< RIGHT AMIGA< and RIGHT ALT keys all at the same time.
This will give you back your Amiga just long enough (six minutes) to save
your work.

   If you have the Revenge Virus in memory, you can kill it by plugging a
joystick into port two, and holding down the fire button while re-booting.
To confirm that the virus has been killed in the memory of your Amiga, the
screen will turn RED.

   If the Byte-Warrior Virus is in memory and you put an infected SCA Virus
disk in the drive, the power light will flash and you will hear a beep.
This is the "tune" you mentioned in your virus story.

   The INSTALL command in workbench can kill 90% of the viruses around
today.  But first, turn OFF you Amiga and make sure you put in a clean
(non-virus infected) disk.


.............................................................................

I hope this article will help some Virus infected user out there...

                                 Paul M...



