
THE  SCA  VIRUS:   ---------------------  The  original.  The one that
started  all  this  craziness.  It hids in memory, attaching itself to
ANY  disk you boot off of.Prints the infamous "Something wonderful has
happened...",etc.,  etc.   Install  all  disks  that  have it and then
reboot  from  a  cold start or from a warm start HOLDING down the LEFT
miuse button.This puts it to death.

BYTE  BANDIT  VIRUS:  --------------------- What the Byte Bandit virus
does  is  once it's in memory, it copies itself to just above the high
memory  pointer on the first hunk of RAM it can find (Which means it's
not always in the same place), wedges itself into the Interrupt Server
chain,  into  the  Trackdisk.device's  vectors,and  creates  itself  a
Resident  structure  so  it  can hang around after reboot.  It watches
EVERY  disk  inserted, and will write itself to ANY bootable disk that
is  inserted!   This  one  can  spread  like wildfire - every disk you
insert  into  your  external  drive  during  a session with this Virus
loaded will result in all those disks being infected.  Ouch.  Also, if
you Install a disk while this virus is going, it will just copy itself
back  to  the disk - which is why it has to be wiped from memory to be
destroyed.

The  REVENGE  VIRUS:   ----------------------  This  virus  is not yet
common  in  North  America  (I think Steve Tibbett is the first person
here  to have a copy of it), but it is apparently making the rounds in
Sweden  and  Germany.What this virus does, is everything that the Byte
Bandit  virus  does,PLUS,  after  infecting  a  disk, it will wait one
minute after every reboot, and change your mouse pointer into an image
of  a  certain  part of the Male anatomy.  8-) I think the reason this
virus  is  called the "Revenge" virus is because it looks specifically
for  the  Byte  Bandit  and  for the SCA Virus.  If it finds either of
these,  it  Rigs  THAT  virus so that it will CRASH the machine unless
THIS  virus  is loaded first.  Note that I might be wrong about this -
that's  the  way it looks from the disassembly,- but be warned,in case
it  pops  up  later  or  something.   He stays in RAM via changing the
CoolCapture  vector  to point to his own code.  He then intercepts the
DoIO()  call  and  watches  for any attempts to rewrite or to read the
boot  block  and  acts  accordingly.He  also  has  an interrupt around
counting  VBlanks  until  it's time to bring up his sicko pointer.  To
get this virus out of memory is Simple - Hold down the Joystick button
(Plug  a  joystick into port 2, and hold down the button while you are
rebooting),  and the screen will briefly turn RED during the boot, and
it's  out  of  memory.   (If  you  hold down Joystick button AND mouse
button,  it  will  half-remove  himself  from  RAM and turn the screen
Blue).

THE  BYTE  WARRIOR  VIRUS:  ------------------------- The Byte Warrior
Virus  is  a lot like the Byte Bandit virus, except it is not designed
to  hurt  anything - it will start an "Alarm" sound if it sees another
virus (or at least I think it does - it hasn't for me), but other than
that,  it  will  write  itself  to any disk inserted.  There is also a
hidden  message  in it, asking us to spread it around and not to erase
it.  Ya, right.

THE  NORTH  STAR  AntiVIRUS:   --------------------------  This  virus
alerts  you to the presence of other viruses.I think this sort of idea
is stupid because it can do just as much damage as the rest of them.

THE  OBELISK  SOFTWARE  CREW  VIRUS:   THE PENTAGON CIRCLE VIRUS:  THE
SYSTEMZ VIRUS:  ---------------------------------- More of the same.

THE  IRQ  VIRUS:   -------------------------  The FIRST non boot-block
virus!   This  one  is murder!  Since it does not attach itself to the
boot  block  it  is not a simple think to find.  This baby attacks the
FIRST  executable  file in your startup-sequence or,if it can't get at
that  file,  it  will attack the DIR command in your C directory!  Get
and read the fine writeup of this virus by S.Tibbett included with his
VIRUSX   utility.

Anyway....the   saga  continues......
I  highly  recommend  that you get a copy of Steve Tibbett's excellent
utility,  VIRUSX  (the  current version as of 9/16/89 is VIRUSX3.20 ).
This  fine  utility detects all 16 known viruses and kills them on the
disk  and  in  RAM.   The built-in sector-viewer allows you to see the
virus on the disk and to also observe any unusual boot block code.

