
 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
                           Advanced bait detection

                                by CoKe/VLAD
 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴


                                Introduction:


 Bait files are the files the AV create to get them infected by a virus,
 to check out his behaviour, his polymorphism, and last but not least to
 debug it. Usually these files are pretty small, and only contain a few
 instructions (i.e. Printing a message). As soon as they start infecting
 hundreds (maybe thousands) of baits, they'll find out everything about
 the virus. So to give them a real hard time doing their jobs, every
 virus should in one way or another be able to recognize those files.

 There are many possible ways of detecting bait files; most of them are
 covered by the article 'Resist!' which you can find in this issue as well.
 Since I suppose you don't want to read all that stuff twice, I will just
 leave it out of my article.
 
 In this article I will cover another way of detecting bait files:
 code-analysis, bait-heuristics to say so, and after checking out tons
 of executables, here's what I found out:
 

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴


                              1 - COM Baits
                              컴컴컴컴컴컴

 Detecting COM baitfiles is a bit difficult, since you really have to
 check out the code (in EXE's you can analyse the header aswell, but
 the informations below are still true for them). Since bait files are
 usually pretty small, best way to do it is to check the first 2048
 (or even 4096) bytes for some specific constructions. Below are
 listed a few things that mostly happen in bait files. Of course it's
 no 100% detection, but if some of these criteria are fulfilled together,
 it's better to make your virus ignore that file.


 - Check for massive use of INC/DEC structures (there's no point in
   increasing a register right after decreasing it :))

 i.e. : INC AX
        DEC AX
        INC BX
        DEC BX
        etc.
       

 - Check for a huge amount of NOP's (especially after jumps), since in
   "normal" COM files, there are few or no NOP's at all.

 i.e. : JMP 110
        NOP
        NOP
        NOP
        NOP
        NOP
        etc.

  Also check for huge amounts of 00h bytes after jumps.


 - Check if the first instructions are a
        mov ah, 4Ch
        int 21h sequence (same for ret)
   or if the first instruction jumps to such a routine.


 - Check for zero jumps (E90000h, EB00h etc.); again, in "normal" programs,
   usually there are no zero jumps.


 - Check for jumps to jumps. Of course this can happen in any COM file, but
   if you have a jump to a jump along with tons of NOP's, you can be sure
   there are wierd things going on.


 - Also check for calls to a ret, as this is meaningless code too.


 As I said, on their own, none of these criteria are useful. But combined
 they give kinda a bait-heuristic, and it depends on you, how you
 consider the matches. A file that matches even 3 of these criteria is
 suspicious in my eyes.


 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 
                              2 - EXE Baits
                              컴컴컴컴컴컴


 As for EXE baits, the above is still true. In addition to all that, we
 have the EXE-header that can help us.

 - Most bait files don't have a stack!
   To check this out, just compare CS with SS and SP with IP. If they both
   match there is no stack, which is quite uncommon for EXE's.

                               컴컴컴컴컴

                             EXE header structure
 
 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

                   Offset    Description         Size    
                   00        Signature           1 word    'MZ' or 'ZM'
                   02        Last Page Size      1 word  
                   04        File Pages          1 word  
                   06        Items               1 word  
                  *08        Header Paras        1 word  
                   0A        MinAlloc            1 word  
                   0C        MaxAlloc            1 word  
                   0E        SS                  1 word<컴컴컴 Compare CS
                   10        SP                  1 word<컴컴컴 to SS and
                   12        Negative checksum   1 word         IP to SP!
                  *14        IP                  1 word<컴컴컴
                  *16        CS                  1 word<컴컴컴
                   18        Reloc table offset  1 word 

    ( [*] These are needed to calculate the entry point of the EXE. )
 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

         An EXE file with no stack is definitely to be distrusted!

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴


  For the further code-analysis, you gotta analyse the code at the
  entry point, and _NOT_ the code after the header! This is a bit more
  complicated than for the COM's, but once you got the entry point
  (file offset of the code at CS/IP), it's the same as for COM files.
  Unfortunately you won't find the entry point anywhere in the header.
  To get it, you must use the following formula:


                  ((CS + Header Para's) * 16) + IP

                  (See EXE header structure above)


 Example:
                mov ax, word ptr cs:[exeheader + 16h]   ; This loads the CS
                                                        ; to AX
                add ax, word ptr cs:[exeheader + 08h]   ; Add the header
                                                        ; para's to CS
                mov dx, 10h
                mul dx                                  ; Multiply by 16
                add ax, word ptr cs:[exeheader + 14h]   ; Add the IP


 This leaves the entry point in AX. Now all you need to do is to set the
 filepointer to the calculated address, and there you go...


                                Final words:


 By respecting the ideas mentioned in 'Resist!', and adopting some of these
 techniques, you can be pretty sure to give the AV a hard time, unless you
 want your latest virus in any AV software 2 days after it was released! :)


 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴


