 Virus Name:  Malmsey
 Aliases:
 V Status:    Rare
 Discovered:  October, 1992
 Symptoms:    .COM files overwritten; programs fail to function properly;
              file date/time changes
 Origin:      Canada
 Eff Length:  495 Bytes
 Type Code:   ONCK - Overwriting Non-Resident .COM Infector
 Detection Method:  Novi 1.15a+, F-Prot, VNet, Viruscan V99+, VBuster,
                    Sweep 2.43a+, IBMAV, AVTK 6.04+, NShld V99+, Sweep/N
 Removal Instructions:  Delete infected files

 General Comments:
       The Malmsey virus was received in October, 1992, and was written
       by a person using the name Lucifer Messiah.  Malmsey is from
       Canada.  This virus is a non-resident, direct action overwriting
       virus which infects .COM programs, including COMMAND.COM.  A
       later version of the virus, Malmsey 2 described below, is a
       parasitic, non-resident, direct action .EXE infector.

       When a program infected with the Malmsey virus is executed, the
       Malmsey virus will infect one .COM program located in the current
       directory, overwriting the first 495 bytes of the host file.  The
       programs date and time in the DOS disk directory listing will have
       been updated to the current system date and time when infection
       occurred.  The following text strings can be found in all Malmsey
       infected programs:

               "*.COM"
               "[Malmsey Habitat v. 1.3]"
               "Warmest Regards to  RABID"
               "from -- ANARKICK SYSTEMS!"

       Malmsey doesn't appear to do anything besides replicate, though
       infected programs will be permanently corrupted.

       Known variant(s) of Malmsey are:
       Malmsey 2: A later version of the Malmsey virus, this variant
                  infects one .EXE program each time an infected program
                  is executed.  Infected programs will have a file length
                  increase of 1,703 to 1,717 bytes with the virus being
                  located at the end of the file.  The Malmsey 2 virus
                  will occassionally reinfect previously infected
                  programs, adding an additional 1,712 bytes with each
                  reinfection.  The file's date and time in the DOS disk
                  directory listing will not be altered.  The following
                  text strings can be found in the viral code in Malmsey 2
                  infected programs:
                  "Malmsey Habitat v. 2.0"
                  "Lucifer Messiah -- ANARKICK SYSTEMS 07-18-"
                  "Hap   Birthday     !"
                  Origin:  Canada  October, 1992.
       Malmsey 3 Beta: A later version of the Malmsey 2 virus, this
                  variant is a memory resident infector of .COM and .EXE
                  programs, including COMMAND.COM.  It becomes memory
                  resident at the top of system memory but below the 640K
                  DOS boundary, hooking interrupts 3 and 21.  Total system
                  and available free memory, as indicated by the DOS CHKDSK
                  program, will have decreased by 2,048 bytes.  Once memory
                  resident, Malmsey 3 Beta infects .COM and .EXE programs
                  when executed.  Infected programs will have a file length
                  increase of 806 bytes with the virus being located at the
                  end of the file.  The file's date and time in the DOS disk
                  directory listing will not be altered.  The following
                  following message may be displayed by the virus when an
                  infected program is executed:
                  "Gotcha!

                   [MALMSEY HABITAT v3.แ]
                   Lucifer Messiah -- ANARKICK SYSTEMS"
                  These text strings are encrypted within the viral code.
                  Origin:  Canada  March, 1993.

ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
