


The Mayberry Family of Virus by HypoDermic!!!!
----------------------------------------------

     
     Legal BS!
    -----------
    
HypoDermic is NOT responsible for any damages directly or
indirectly caused by the use of these alternative programs and
code.  These virus were produced for educational puposes only! :>
These files are not to be distributed without the written consent
of HypoDermic nor are they to be used in any destructive form!

     Who the Hell is this HypoDermic?
     --------------------------------
     
Good question! Some of you already know me either by my real
handle or if you are special you know me by my real name (oooh!)
but for those who have know clue I am a lamer newbie upcoming
alternative programer with realy no future doing anything else but
virus programming. Wow! What would my therapist say about that?  I
make no claims to be good because I am just learning the trade with
no formal education. But maybe someday (daydreaming...) Ill be in
one of those k-rad groups, NOT! 

     Kissing Ass Section!
     --------------------
This is that section you always see at the end where I am
supposed to kiss ass to all those who help me out! Yeah right! 
Well I am gonna tell ya the people who helped me know who they are
and need not be mentioned publically here except one and THIS IS
NOT A KISS ASS.....and the winner is MnemoniX for his cool beta of
Biological Warfare...You wanted some feed back check out these
files!  I liked it and it is easy to use and pretty moron proof.

     Why THE MAYBERRY FAMILY?
     ------------------------
     
Cause I felt that the AVer world needed another virus family
:> to keep them busy naming these fucking things. Get a clue and
go back to the Number Naming scheme and make your life easier
HeHe!! And someone already did the Adams Family (Deathboy), damn!
But be sure to watch for other families in the future; such as, The
Brady Bunch with my favorite the Groovy Marsha Virus, Beaver
Cleaver Family, The Beverly Hillbilly Family, 90210 (make me vomit),
Melrose Place, Cosby Family (have to include all ethnic families),
The Family Ties Family, and any other fucking TV show with a family I
can think of.  Maybe you AVers may just have to have a Parent Family
name and call it TV Spoof Virus (TSV!!) maybe Ill copyright that
parent name hmmmm!!! I should have mentioned that I watch way to much
TV and not enough time programming. This show is one of the classics
so I present you with the Mayberry Family.

     How about a quick breakdown of the cast?
     -----------------------------------------
     
This will save some of you "researchers" especially you self
appointed ones some time which correct me if I am wrong but that
would be about all of you!

Andy:      Memory resident, COM & EXE infector. Very simple Andy was
           a example of a fine citizen of Mayberry a role model for
           us all. Andy hated alternative programmer deep down
           inside and vowed to lock us up in his maximum security
           jail. Hehehe. 

Barney:    Non-Resident, COM infector, encryption, anti-trace,
           directory transversal, with improved Dir stealth. One
           bullet Barn is a sneaky little devil. I wonder if he
           ever T-ed up Velmalou?

Opy:       Memory resident, COM infector, anti-trace.  What a little
           rascal (hey there's another Family for me to create The
           Little Rascals) that opy was always the loyal son.  I bet
           Opy wouldn't ever code virus in our times cause his Pa
           wouldn't allow it. 
            
AuntB:     Non-Resident, COM & EXE infector, directory
           transversal, with improved Dir stealth.  Everone needs an
           aunt like AuntB to wipe there asses, pack there
           lunches, and make good 'ol family dinners.  Hmmmm with an
           aunt like that who needs computes and all this high tech
           modern crap.
            
Floyd:     Non-Resident, EXE infector.  Would you let a Fuck
           like that cut your hair?

Otis:      Non-Resident, COM & EXE infector, encryption,
           directory transversal. Be careful this fat sloopy drunk
           is liable to infect your whole fucking system with one
           looonnnggg belt of moonshine!

MissCrump: Memory Resident, COM & EXE infector, anti-trace,
           Dir stealth.  Miss Crump that little vixen, has always
           turned my crank! I bet she's a go-er! Andy should have
           tooled her when he had the chance.
            
Velmalou:  Non-Resident, COM infector, directory stealth. She was a
           little too mousey for me but I am sure one of you other
           perverts thought she was the end all of country women.
            
Jethro:    Non-Resident, COM infector, encryption. WAIT a Cotton
           picking minute he ain't no member of the Mayberry Family,
           you might say!!! Well Ill tell ya there is a lot of
           inbreeding happening way down south and you can never be
           to sure (Andy and him looked alot a like and he was as
           dumb as GoMer and he let Floyd cut his hair you can tell
           by the part on the side it is Floyd's trade mark!) We
           may never know what realy happened by that cement pond???
           I guess this could be one of those virus that could be
           considered as part of several families until someone
           renames it! :>
            
Goober:    Memory Resident, COM & EXE infector, encryption,
           anti-trace, improved Dir Stealth.  Goober falls into the
           same catagory as Floyd...would you let this fuck fix your
           car if YES ill sell you my entire virus collection for
           $100 dollars.  I personally would let him fix my car
           right after he performs brain surgery on one of my loved
           one, NOT!!! 

GoMer:     Non-Resident, COM & EXE infector, Dir stealth. Well 
           Gooolllyyy!!! What a knob! He kinda reminds of a few of
           the people I know in the virus scene not to point any
           fingers but you know who you are.


 
     Well Thats All!!
     ----------------

 Well I hope I remembered all the Family if I find a few more Ill
be sure to send them on there way.  You can never tell who is
truely related to who.  Be Sure to watch for more Lame TV Family
Virus!!! Some of these scan and some don't some are lame and others
are lamer. 



HypoDermic =============>PUT THE NEEDLE IN!!!!





P.S. BTW, there is no destructive routines in any of the Mayberry
     Family! Could you honestly see anyone from the cast causing
     harm to another person? It would be like someone actually dying
     on the A-TEAM (hey hey there's another one for me!) 

 
P.S.P.S. Hope you enjoyed this Spoof!

 
