
             Columbus Day Virus: Press Release (21)


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:                       Jan Kosko
Sept. 22, 1989                               301/975-2762

                                             TN-XXXX


             COMPUTER SECURITY EXPERTS ADVISE STEPS
               TO REDUCE THE RISK OF VIRUS ATTACKS

     To reduce the risk of damage from potentially serious
computer viruses, including one called "Columbus Day," experts at
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the
National Computer Security Center (NCSC), and the Software
Engineering Institute (SEI) are recommending several measures plus
commonsense computing practices.   
     "This advice is being offered to encourage effective yet calm
response to recent reports of a new variety of computer virus,"
says Dennis Steinauer, manager of the computer security management
and evaluation group at NIST. 
     While incidents of malicious software attacks are relatively
few, they have been increasing.  Most recently, a potentially
serious personal computer virus has been reported.  The virus is
known by several names, including "Columbus Day," Datacrime and
"Friday the 13th."  In infected machines it is designed to attack
the hard-disk data-storage devices of IBM-compatible personal
computers on or after October 13.   The virus is designed to
destroy disk file directory information, making the disk's
contents inaccessible.  (A fact sheet on this virus is attached
and includes precautionary measures to help prevent damage.) 
     While the Columbus Day virus has been identified in both the
United States and Europe, there is no evidence that it has spread
extensively in this country or that it is inherently any more
threatening than other viruses, say the computer security experts. 
     "Computer virus" is a term often used to indicate any self-
replicating software that can, under certain circumstances,
destroy information in computers or disrupt networks.  Other
examples of malicious software are "Trojan horses" and "network
worms."  Viruses can spread quickly and can cause extensive
damage.  They pose a larger risk for personal computers which tend
to have fewer protection features and are often used by non-
technically-oriented people.  Viruses often are written to
masquerade as useful programs so that users are duped into copying
them and sharing them with friends and work colleagues.  
     Routinely using good computing practices can reduce the
likelihood of contracting and spreading any virus and can minimize
its effects if one does strike.  Advice from the experts includes:
*    Make frequent backups of your data, and keep several
     versions.
*    Use only software obtained from reputable and reliable
     sources.  Be very cautious of software from public sources,
     such as software bulletin boards, or sent across personal
     computer networks.            
*    Don't let others use your computer without your consent.     
*    Use care when exchanging software between computers at work
     or between your home computer and your office computer.
*    Back up new software immediately after installation and use
     the backup copy whenever you need to restore.  Retain
     original distribution diskettes in a safe location.
*    Learn about your computer and the software you use and be
     able to distinguish between normal and abnormal system
     activity.
*    If you suspect your system contains a virus, stop using it
     and get assistance from a knowledgeable individual.
     In general, educating users is one of the best, most cost-
effective steps to take, says Steinauer.  Users should know about
malicious software in general and the risks that it poses, how to
use technical controls, monitor their systems and software for
abnormal activity, and what to do to contain a problem or recover
from an attack.  "An educated user is the best defense most
organizations have," he says. 
     A number of commercial organizations sell software or
services that may help detect or remove some types of viruses,
including the Columbus Day virus.  But, says Steinauer, there are
many types of viruses, and new ones can appear at any time.  "No
product can guarantee to identify all viruses," he adds.
     To help deal with various types of computer security threats,
including malicious software, NIST and others are forming a
network of computer security response and information centers. 
These centers are being modeled after the SEI's Computer Emergency
Response Team Coordination Center, often called CERT, established
by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).  The
centers will serve as sources of information and guidance on
viruses and related threats and will respond to computer security
incidents.
     In addition, NIST recently has issued guidelines for
controlling viruses in various computer environments including
personal computers and networks. 
     NIST develops security standards for federal agencies and
security guidelines for unclassified computer systems.  NCSC, a
component of the National Security Agency, develops guidelines for
protecting classified (national security) systems.  SEI, a
research organization funded by DARPA, is located at Carnegie
Mellon University in Pittsburgh.


NOTE:  Computer Viruses and Related Threats:  A Management Guide
(NIST Special Publication 500-166) is available from
Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402.  Order by stock no. 003-003-02955-6 for
$2.50 prepaid. Editors and reporters can get a copy from the NIST
Public Information Division, 301/975-2762.
