	An incredibly complicated tale of mystery and intrigue:

	Former NuKE virus-programmer Talon, of Brisbane, Australia,
	makes it into Fictual Facts this month for making life just
	a little more brutish than it ought to be.

	"Confusion to your enemies" could be TaLon's motto and
	you'll agree after reading this whopper. Originally,
	the writer of the PuKE/Harry McBungus viruses, Talon created
	Harry McBungus and Terminator-Z as electronic beards for a
	group predominatly interested in optimizing virus code and
	poking fun of the NuKE virus-programming group.  But, fate took a
	hand and made the PuKE virus famous down under when it infected
	a company and the event was publicized in a newspaper. Talon,
	according to sources, saw the article, called the newspaper and
	gave them an interview, perhaps thinking editors would keep his
	name secret.  They didn't.

	Editors passed his name along to the Fraud Squad, a branch of
	the Australian national crime-fighting force which focuses on
	computer crime.  Agents from the Fraud Squad promptly rounded
	up Talon and here's where the story gets tricky.  Talon, by
	adroitly using the aliases of Harry McBungus and Terminator-Z,
	was able to sufficiently confuse the investigation by pushing
	authorship of the PuKE virus onto people, who essentially, didn't
	exit.

	At this point, TaLon applied for membership to NuKE and submitted
	the Daeman virus.  Shortly therafter, the Daeman virus infected
	a PC network belonging to Australian Telecom, sufficiently
	inconveniencing the company so that it summoned the Fraud Squad.
	It was "round up the usual suspects" time and Talon again went
	into the bag. This time, he shifted suspicion onto two other
	Australian hackers and NuKE members, Phrozen Doberman and Screaming
	Radish. NuKE promptly terminated TaLon's membership for this
	graceless cybersocial faux pas, but did publish the Daeman source
	code in its InfoJournal #7 before wishing him luck with Australian
	authorities.

	TaLon promptly uploaded a fakeware archive called VCL20.ZIP
	into some US virus exchange bulletin board systems.  Advertised
	as the Virus Creation Laboratory v. 2.0, the archive was
	"password protected" with the phrase "Nowhere Man Sucks."
	It was a hoax.

