T„L”N: Has been a virus writer for years, here's his background, in his    
~~~~~  own words:                                                          
                                                                           
"Hi there, I am typing to you from the Newcastle, New South Wales,         
Australia. I am not new to the virus scene, in fact I was a member of the  
puppet group [PuKE].                                                       
                                                                           
Just a quick background on PuKE: it was set up about a year ago by Harry   
McBungus (who wrote X-Fungus, No Frills 2.0 and No Frills 3.0, all         
unremarkable) simply as a stuff-around, paying out on NuKE. Harry saw NuKE 
getting large egos over large, non-resident direct-action viruses: in other
words he though they were idiots. Hence, PuKE endeavoured to write things  
which compared to NuKE WareZ but on a far smaller code scale. The fruits of
Harry's labours were 'stolen' by myself, however, and that is how they grew
in the wild; otherwise they would not be around.                           
Although PuKE disliked NuKE, everything grows in stages, people mature, and
since then NuKE has evolved into the best Power Virus Group in the world.  
                                                                           
(As a side note, Harry left the scene in around June 1992, as a result of  
something called a Fraud squad. Good luck to Harry in whatever he is now   
doing.)                                                                    
                                                                           
I, T„L”N, defected to NuKE shortly after writing the Dudly virus (also     
known as No Frills 4.0 and V2P6Z Mark 2, which was stolen off me by        
someone hacking into my board. I had no intention of releasing it into the 
wild. It's unremarkable besides its lame polymorphism, which is similar to 
V2P6 in end result, not generation)                                        
                                                                           
I have not added anything to the virus scene since the writing of Dudley-1,
but grew active a month ago with the creation of another, yet-to-be-named  
virus, namely a 3k COM/EXE/SYS/BIN/OVL/MBR/BS infecting, polymorphic       
stealth virus. It hides partition infection; it hides file size increase on
directory; it infects boot sectors of ANY floppy format, current or future,
on read/write access; it infects hard disk partition on infected disk boot 
or infected file execution on virgin system, and so on. One mother of a    
virus.                                                                     
                                                                           
However, I have taken great care not to make it destructive in anyway, so  
no stupid AV researcher can point the finger spin the typical anti-virus   
rhetoric, 'Bad virus, bad virus, didn't you know every virus will destroy  
precious hours of work.'                                                   
                                                                           
My opinions on AV researchers in general is very low. I take great pride in
totally debunking their theories and stereotypes. I am NOT a social        
recluse. I do not have a sunken chest, nor am I fat or a cowardly          
insignificance. I possess a fair degree of common sense. I do not go out of
my way to trash boards or computers; in fact I steer away from such things.
Furthermore, I do not view virus writing or the discussion of viruses a    
taboo subject.                                                             
                                                                           
Most of all I do not try to keep the public in the dark about what viruses 
can and cannot do. Harry McBungus shared basically the same views but when 
he tried to speak out and 'educate' the public, he instead got nailed by   
the press. (The media is another of my pet hates.)                         
                                                                           
Anyway I have lost patience with hierarchy and bureaucracy... and the      
media, the government and the public can basically suck John McAfee's dick 
while he laughs all the way to the bank. We have provided and income for   
John for long enough, it's time to make SCAN look like the total crock of  
shit that it has always been.                                              
                                                                           
Before I leave, just a few quick hi's, ho's and 'thanks' to:               
John McAfee: Fuck You                                                      
Patricia 'It is unknown what this virus does besides replicate' Hoffman:   
        How about you get a clue before you make out you're the big-wig    
        virus analyzer. VSUM is the biggest farce since ViruScan itself.   
Sara Gordon: for all the laughs your ridiculous psychological theories     
        about virus writers gave me. Try a bit harder.                     
Matt: for all the cool times we had. The legend of the 50-cent piss-up     
        will never leave my memory banks.                                  
Pantera, Metallica: for providing an awesome soundtrack for virus          
        development!                                                       
and to NuKE for making everything possible.                                
                                                                           
                        T„L”N/NuKE"                                        
                                                                           