 
  ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
  ³  THE VIRUS INFORMER           ³      FACT:  Did you know that there
  ³  your weekly virus newsletter ³             are over 586 unique viruses,
  ³  by Mark E. Bishop edited by  ³             over 716 variants, and over
  ³  Alan Bechtold                ³             1302 known viruses?
  ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


     CHAPTER 3:  'Introducing the NEW Macintosh Virus, T4A, T4B'


   The following information is in regard to a new Macintosh virus discovered
 June 30, 1992 which causes damage to Apple Macintosh computers.  The virus
 is the T4-A, and T4-B.  They can alter your boot code, alter/damage your
 Macintosh applications, and could possible spread into your System files.

   The information is valid and has been edited.  Contributing information
 came from Gene Spafford of Purdue University and Chris Schram of the Home-
 base CVIA BBS.

   Virus: T4-A, T4-B Damage: altered boot code; altered/damaged applications
 Spread: possibly significant Systems affected: Apple Macintosh computers. All
 types, but see text.

   A new virus has been discovered, in two slightly different strains. These
 were included with the game application GoMoku, versions 2.0 and 2.1.  These
 files were posted to the Usenet comp.binaries.mac newsgroup, and uploaded to
 various ftp archives, including the one at sumex-aim.stanford.edu. [Note: the
 game was distributed under a falsified name.

   The name used in the posting, and embedded in the game, is that of a
 completely uninvolved person.  Please do not use this person's name in
 reference to the virus.  The actual virus author is unknown, and probably
 used this person's name as a form of harassment.

   When invoked, the virus attempts to alter the System file.  This alteration
 attempt will be noticed by the SAM antivirus program (and possibly by
 Gatekeeper, depending on settings).  The alert message that is displayed
 indicates that "Disinfectant" is trying to make the alteration -- whether
 Disinfectant is installed on the system or not. This is evidently an attempt
 to fool users into approving the modification attempt, thus allowing the
 virus to infect.

   The change to the System file results in alterations to the boot code under
 both Systems 6 and 7.  The damage may render some systems unbootable, but
 will usually result in INIT files and System extensions (respectively) not
 loading.

   The virus also attempts to modify application files on the system disk.
 These alterations may damage some applications by overwriting portions of the
 programs with the virus code.  These damaged applications *cannot* be
 repaired but must be reinstalled from distribution or backup media.

   Once installed and active, the virus does not appear to perform any other
 overt damage.  At least one version of the virus may print a message when run
 after a certain number of files are infected by it. This message identifies
 the infection as the T4 virus.

   [Note: Although this note is unrelated to the T4 virus, we feel it
 appropriate and important to remind Mac users that neither Apple System 7 nor
 7.0.1 should be used UNMODIFIED because they have the "disappearing folders"
 bug.  Users should be sure they have installed the (free) System Tuner 1.1.1
 from Apple on these systems; versions 1.0 and 1.1 of the Tuner are outdated
 or buggy and should not be used.

   Tuner 1.1.1 is available from authorized Apple dealers, from many user
 groups, from commercial networks, and on several places on the Internet.
 Also, System 7.0.1 is *not* the same as System 7 with the Tuner installed;
 7.0.1 is a later release of System 7.  System 7.0.1 also needs the update
 installed.]

   Authors of all major Macintosh anti-virus tools are planning updates to
 their tools to locate and/or eliminate this virus. Some of these are listed
 below.  We recommend that you obtain and run a CURRENT version of AT LEAST
 ONE of these programs.


 HERE ARE SOME MAC ANTI-VIRUS SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND THEIR UPDATE INFO:


    Tool: DISINFECTANT
    Status: Free software (courtesy of Northwestern University and John
    Norstad) Revision to be released: 2.9 Where to find: usual archive sites
    and bulletin boards -- ftp.acns.nwu.edu, sumex-aim.stanford.edu,
    rascal.ics.utexas.edu, AppleLink, America Online,
    CompuServe, Genie, Calvacom, MacNet, Delphi,
    comp.binaries.mac, when available: soon (probably by July 6)


    Tool: GATEKEEPER
    Status: Free software (courtesy of Chris Johnson)
    Revision to be released: 1.2.6
    Where to find: usual archive sites and bulletin boards --
    microlib.cc.utexas.edu, sumex-aim.stanford.edu,
    rascal.ics.utexas.edu, comp.binaries.mac
    When available: soon


    Tool: RIVAL
    Status: Commercial software
    Revision to be released: T4 Vaccine, Rival Refresh 1.1.9w
    Where to find it: AppleLink, America Online, Internet, Compuserve.
    When available: Immediately.


    Tool: SAM (Virus Clinic and Intercept)
    Status: Commercial software
    Revision to be released: ???
    Where to find: CompuServe, America Online, Applelink, Symantec's
    Bulletin Board @ 408-973-9598
    When available: immediately
    Notes: User definition information: Virus Name:  T4 Resource type:  CODE
    Resource ID:  Any 0 Resource size:  >= 5600 Search String:  Hex
    2F2EFFD02F2EFFC43F3CA97B486E String offset:  >= 714 from end Check value
    should be 'E7FA' if all fields entered correctly


    Tool: VIREX
    Status: Commercial software
    Revision to be released: 3.82
    Where to find: Microcom, Inc (919) 490-1277
    When available: 6 July 1992
    Comments: Virex 3.82 will detect the virus in any file, and repair
    any file that has not been permanently damaged by the virus. All
    Virex subscribers will automatically be sent an update on
    diskette. All other registered users will receive a notice with
    information to update prior versions to detect T4. The information
    necessary to update immediately is also available on Microcom's
    BBS: (919)419-1602 and on America OnLine.


    Tool: VIRUSDETECTIVE
    Status: Shareware
    Revision to be released: 5.0.5
    Where to find: Usual bulletin boards will announce a new search string.
    Registered users will also get a mailing
    with the new search string.
    When available: Immediately.
    Comments: search strings are: Resource CODE & Size > 3900 & Pos -1200 &
    WData 3F3CA9CC*31BC4E71 ; For finding T4



   If you discover what you believe to be a virus on your Macintosh system,
 please report it to the vendor/author of your anti-virus software package for
 analysis.  Such reports make early, informed warnings like this one possible
 for the rest of the Mac community.

   Also, be aware that writing and releasing computer viruses is more than a
 rude and damaging act of vandalism -- it is also a violation of many state
 and Federal laws in the US, and illegal in several other countries.  If you
 have information concerning the author of this or any other computer virus,
 please contact any of the anti-virus providers listed above.

   Several Mac virus authors have been apprehended thanks to the efforts of
 the Mac user community, and some are awaiting trial for their actions.  This
 is yet one more way to help protect you computers.

 - end -
Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253
