I highly recommend a study of William Blake. You might start with The
Marriage of Heaven and Hell.

More Blakeisms:

And builds a Heaven in Hell's despair
And builds a Hell in Heaven's despite

The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom.
He who desires but acts not, breeds pestilence.
If the fool would persist in his folly he would become wise.

Prisons are built with stones of Law,
Brothels with bricks of Religion.

The lust of the goat is the bounty of God.
The wrath of the lion is the wisdom of God.
The nakedness of woman is the work of God.

Every thing possible to be believ'd is an image of truth.
The tygers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction.
Every Wolf's & Lion's howl raises from Hell a Human Soul.

Thy Heaven doors are my Hell Gates;

Truly, My Satan, thou art but a Dunce

Now the sneaking serpent walks in mild humility
And the just man rages in the wilds where lions roam.

O Urizen! Creator of men! mistaken Demon of heaven!
Mad, he danc'd on his mountains high & dark as heaven.

But Mark! Active Evil is better than Passive Good.
This Angel, who is now become a Devil, is my particular friend

A dragon form, clashing his scales: at midnight he arose,
America is darken'd; and my punishing Demons, terrified,

the study of angels, the workmanship of demons

Art thou she that made the nations drunk with the cup of Religion?
furious lions sound the song of Joy
The cruel joy of Luvah's daughters, lacerating with knives
They catch the shrieks in cups of gold,
But the Human Wine stood wondering;

And was Jerusalem builded here among these dark Satanic Mills?

Suffer not the fashionable Fools to depress your powers

And in its Holiness is closed the Abomination of Desolation.

I must Create a System or be enslav'd by another Man's.

I will not Reason & Compare: my business is to Create.
Calling on God for help, and not ourselves, in whom God dwells,

Mystery, Babylon the Great, The Druid Dragon & hidden Harlot
Dazzling around thy skirts like a Serpent of precious stones
Am I not Lucifer the Great, and you my daughters?

 
I just went through a copy of his Collected Works and keyed into my
tagfile any lines that struck my eye.
