Time flies when you're in a coma.
Crying: strengthens immune system by cleansing impurities
In ENGLISH, Data?! --Captain Beverly Picard
"Soon we'll be sliding down the razor blade of life..." o/` o/`
A book (returned) in time saves time.
I don't see you guys rating the kind of "mate" I'm contemplating...
Better attitudes through chemistry.
Marriage is a trip between Niagra Falls and Reno.
"Nobody listens unless you swear every other word." -- Kirk
Notice: All incoming fire has the right of way.
Quark! Quark! Beware the quantum duck!
I'm floating in a most peculiar way.
Never trust a computer you cannot carry.
Behaviorism is the art of pulling habits out
SDR: Shift Disk Right
The Fifth Rule: You have taken yourself too seriously.
Bearjoran takes over DS9 in Pooh D'Etat!
Women: Can't live with 'em, can't shoot 'em, pass the beer nuts.
Expensive imported beer is good for the sole.
Love of Money: The root of all EVIL...
Remember when 'lots of ram' meant 32k?
Hiya, Doc! What's cookin'? - Data
Computers make very fast, very accurate mistakes
Tasha Burger: It'll come up again later after it's gone.
113 grams, 10 milliliters ... he's lead, Jim.
Oxymoron: Conservative Scholar
Man Vs. Beer: A beer will only come when you want it to.
Gardeners are prone to sod-den decisions!
"I am Homer of the Borg. You will be assim.... Hmm... Donuts..."
Windoze isn't crippleware - It's "Fuctionally Challenged"
OPERATORS really know how to mount it
Don't blame me, it's San Andrea's fault
Frogs are smart.  They ea           Refer#: NONE
Hollywood Gossip: Phyllis Zinn
A liberal is nothing but a communist on Prozac!
96.37% of all statistics are made up
Why don't sharks bite lawyers?  Professional courtesy.
QaH! jIpumpu' 'ej jIHu'laHbe'!
I can't be humble -- it's just not honest.
i don't beLIEve slick wilLIE!
"Bloody hell!" -- O'Brien
Use IF...ELSE  IF...ELSE  IF...ELSE... to implement multi
Visit beautiful Vergas, Minnesota.
SPELLCASTERS do it with their rods/staves/wands
ARC.angel says "zip.itup"
Look, mom: No disk drive!
Cats have 9 lives.  Do radioactive cats have 18 half-lives?
A pessimist is a well informed optimist.
Assimilation is futile.  You will be resisted.
We're testing as QWK as we can
"What is this...  time?"  Wormhole creators
What is the highest pyramid in the world?  Amway.
SWAT: SWAp Terminals
Experience is what you get after you need it
SYSTEM ERROR: press F13 to continue...
<Ctrl<<Alt<<Del< to read the next message
My favorite color?  Red.  No, BluAAAAAHHH!
James S. Brady, Press Secretary to President Reagan was an Eagle Scout.
You are aging when all your black book names end in M.D.
Klingon vessel uncloaking....or is it Odo?
TROI: I feel pain, GREAT pain! ... RIKER: Glad you liked it!
Thank you, God.  Keep it up!!!
Disks travel in packs.
Cut the Grass!: Moses Lawn
It wasn't broken..until I started playing with it!
I TAUGHT MY DUCK TO SAY ".QWK .QWK"
These were great.  I just tried to search TLX's database and got a major
Confuse the world -- smile all day Monday!
You mean there are BBS's that AREN'T run by drunks?
No brain, no effect!
Don't eat with you mouth full.
Reality is all a point of view.
Fashion:  A form of ugliness so intolerable that it changes every six months.
Let all fetuses live.
Does "Gay 90s" have anything to do with Clinton's Army?
Do witches run spell checkers?
<<<DEADLY NINJA THROWING TAGLINE>>>
"@#$%*!  I've struck oil", Tom said, crudely.
YOU VACUOUS STUFFY-NOSED MALODOROUS PERVERT!!!
Downstairs, in the historic Old Grid Building.
BATF Cafeteria Menu: Blackened Baby Back Ribs.
DRUMMERS do it longer
Pants:  Trousers' country cousins.
duck season, wabbit season, duck season, wabbit season..
"Shut up Spock, we're rescuing you" - McCoy.....
Narrow minded: looks through keyhole with both eyes at the same time.
"A radioactive cat has eighteen half-lives."
Want a taste of religion?  Bite a minister!
"Every why hath a wherefore."
You will be invited to dine with many important people.
Focus On the Family; "McCulture" at its very best!
Define normal.
Artists do it by design.
"Dumber than advertised." -- Yakko Warner
Sysoping makes you fat.
A man's best friend is his copy of Messenger V1.0.
FORE!.........................................<BONK!<
Skydivers go down faster.