 Eat a live frog, every morning, and nothing worse will happen to you all
 day.
 A fly by night leaves no shadow beyond a doubt.
 I'll smoke when the pope's wife takes the pill.
 Beauty times brains equals a constant.
 Nostalgia just isn't what it used to be. --Herb Caen
 How much does it cost to ride an IO bus?
 2 Bits.
 Designed with your mind in mind by people who have in mind what you
 should have in mind.
 "That we can comprehend the little we know already is mindboggling
 in itself." -- Tom Gates
 Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny.
 Hell hath no fury like a woman beaten out of a million dollars.
 When the only tool you have is a hammer, it is tempting to treat
 everything as if it were a nail.
 Don't try to have the last word.  You might get it.
 A poet who reads his verse in public may have other nasty habits.
 "We are getting into semantics again.  If we use words, there is a
 very grave danger they will be misinterpreted."
         -- H. R. Haldeman, testifying in his own defense.
 Person who falls in blast furnace is certain to feel overwrought.
 Long computations which yield 0 (zero) are probably all for naught.
 Person who arrives at party two hours late will probably find he has
 been beaten to the punch.
 When Snow White turns on with the dwarfs she probably winds up
 feeling dopey.
 President Ford has noted that there are too many economic pundits
 and forecasters and has decided on an excess prophets tax.
 Worth seeing?  Yes, but not worth going to see.
 Now and then an innocent man is sent to the legislature.
 He was so narrow-minded he could see through a keyhole with two eyes.
 There are more old drunkards than old doctors.
 He missed an invaluable opportunity to hold his tongue.
 There is no lawyer who cannot take two sides.
 With Congress, every time they make a joke it's a law; and every time
 they make a law it's a joke.
 A radical is a person with both feet firmly planted in the air.
 How wonderful opera would be if there were no singers.
 What is my loftiest ambition?  I've always wanted to throw an egg at
 an electric fan.
 Conversation is the slowest form of human communication.
 Lady A: Mr. C, you are quite drunk.
 Mr. C.: And you are very ugly, but indisputably in the morning I will be
         quite sober.
 Your ignorance cramps my conversation.
 Reading is thinking with someone else's head instead of one's own.
 A person will sometimes devote all his life to the development of one
 part of his body - the wishbone.
 A mother takes twenty years to make a man of her boy, and another
 woman makes a fool of him in twenty minutes.
 There is one thing more exasperating than a spouse who can cook and
 won't, and that's a spouse who can't cook and will.
 The famous politician was trying to save both his faces.
 Sex is nature's way of saying Hi!'.
 Disclose classified information only when a NEED TO KNOW exists.
 Biggest security gap - an open mouth.
 Regnant populi. (The people rule.)
 Pregnant ropuli. (The snake will soon lay eggs.)
 Ditat Deus. (God enriches.)
 Post proelium, praemium. (After the battle, the reward.)
 Facta, non verba.
 Sum quod eris. (I am what you will be.)
 Auribus teneo lupum. (I hold a wolf by the ears.)
 Vigilia pretium libertatis.  (Eternal vigilance is the price of
 liberty.)
 Populus vult decipi. (The people like to be deceived.)
 Fidelity: A virtue peculiar to those who are about to be betrayed.
 Forgetfulness: A gift of God bestowed upon debtors in compensation
 for their destitution of conscience.
 The good die young - because they see it's no use living if you've
 got to be good.
 The thing that takes up the least amount of time and causes the most
 amount of trouble is sex.
 Drawing on my fine command of language, I said nothing.
 It took me fifteen  years to discover I  had no talent for  writing,
 but I couldln't give it up because by that time I was too famous.
 Acquaintance: a person whom we know well enough to borrow from, but
 not well enough to lend to.
 The most important service rendered by the press is that of educating
 people to approach printed matter with distrust.
 The optimist proclaims that we live in the best of all possible
 worlds, and the pessimist fears this is true.
 In marriage, as in war, it is permitted to take every advantage of
 the enemy.
 He looked at me as if I was a side dish he hadn't ordered.
 It was a book to kill time for those who liked it better dead.
 He walks as if balancing the family tree on his nose.
 The plural of spouse is spice.
 There's so much to say but your eyes keep interrupting me.
 Friends: people who borrow my books and set wet glasses on them.
 A holding company is a thing where you hand an accomplice the goods
 while the policeman searches you.
 My notion of a wife at forty is that a man should be able to change
 her, like a bank note, for two twenties.
 Troubles are like babies; they only grow by nursing.
 "When a man says he had pleasure with a woman he does not mean
 conversation."
         Samuel Johnson
 To laugh at men of sense is the privilege of fools.
 Sin has many tools, but a lie is the handle which fits them all.
 Let a fool hold his tongue and he will pass for a sage.
 Dawn:   The time when men of reason go to bed.  Certain old men prefer
 to rise at about that time, taking a cold bath and a long walk with an
 empty stomach, and otherwise mortifying the flesh. They then point with
 pride to these practices as the cause of their sturdy health and ripe
 years; the truth being that they are hearty and old, not because of
 their habits, but in spite of them.  The reason we find only robust
 persons doing this thing is that it has killed all the others who have
 tried it.
 What kind of sound does a sub-atomic duck make?
 Quark!!
 How many IBM CPUs does it take to execute a program?
 Ten.  Nine to hold it down, and one to cut its head off.
 The only people who listen to both sides of an argument are the neighbors.
 With clothes the new are best, with friends the old are best.
 Cynic: A blackguard whose faulty vision sees things as they are, not as
 they ought to be.  Hence the custom among the Scythians of plucking out
 a cynic's eyes to improve his vision.

 The rising people, hot and out of breath,
 Roared round the palace:  "Liberty or death!"
 "If death will do," the King said, "let me reign; You'll have, I'm
 sure, no reason to complain."
 Frosh:  "Lemme have a 10-mfd. capacitor."
 Salesman:  "Will you pay for it now?"
 Frosh:  "Naw, charge it."
 Today is a good day to bribe a high ranking public official.
 The universe is laughing behind your back.
 You can call her an outdoor girl if she has the bloom of youth on her
 cheeks and the cheeks of youth in her bloomers.
 Might as well be frank, monsieur. It would take a miracle to get you
 out of Casablanca and the Germans have outlawed miracles.
 A venerable old Jewish gentleman was day-dreaming while sunning himself
 on a bench on the boardwalk at Alantic City.  His reverie was disturbed
 when another man approached and asked, "Can I join you?"
         "What's the matter, maybe I'm, coming apart??"
 Let not the sands of time get in your lunch.
 Standing on head makes smile of frown, but rest of face also upside down
 A critic is a legless man who teaches running.
 It is a truly wise man who does not play leap frog with a unicorn.
 Let him who takes the Plunge remember to return it by Tuesday.
 The decision doesn't have to be logical, it was unanimous.
 How can you work when the system's so crowded?
 HE WHO LAUGHS, LASTS.
 The best prophet of the future is the past.
 ONTOGENY RECAPITULATES PHILOGENY -- OR, IS THAT
 ONTOLOGY RECAPITULATES PHILOLOGY...???
 Even the smallest candle burns brighter in the dark.
 To be is to do.
                   I. Kant
 To do is to be.
                   J. P. Sartre
 Do be do be do.
                   F. Sinatra
  X
 E  DU DX  takes the place of normal sex!
  U
 E  DU DX  takes the place of normal sex!
 I do desire we may be better strangers.
 Assassination is the extreme form of censorship.
 An asylum for the sane would be empty.
 Council for the defence was prepared to prove:  1) He shot in self defence,
 2) The police did it and stuck the gun in his hand, and 3) He was 100
 miles away when it happened.
 The churches must learn humility as well as teach it.
 If all economists were laid end to end, they would not reach a conclusion.
 May you live all the days of your life.
 Never speak ill of yourself;  your friends will always say
 enough on that subject.
 Fleas can be taught nearly anything that a congressperson can.
 His money is twice tainted: 'taint yours and 'taint mine.
 Little nips of whiskey, little drops of gin,
 Make a lady wonder where on earth she's bin.
 Living in the past has one thing in its favour - it's cheaper.
 Now I lay me back to sleep,
 The speaker's dull, the subject's deep.
 If he should stop before I wake,
 Give me a nudge for goodness' sake.
 Los Angeles:  Seventeen suburbs in search of a city.
 How can I take an interest in my work when I don't like it?
 It's a useless but absolutely vital precaution.
 Speaking of poison, I'll see that you get some fresh breakfast immediately.

 Jay:  Did you hear the one about the Polish athelete who was so proud
 of his gold medal that he had it bronzed?
 Banacek:  No, how does it go?

 PARKINSON'S LAW:  Work expands to fill the time available for its completion.
 PARKINSON'S LAW, MODIFIED: The junk you have will expand to fill the
 available space.
 THE PETER PRINCIPLE: In every hierarchy, each employee tends to rise to
 his level of incompetence.
 CHEOPS' LAW: Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.
 MURPHY'S LAW: If something can go wrong, it will.
 WEILER'S LAW: Nothing is impossible for the man who does not have to do it
 himself.
 FINAGLE'S LAW: Once a job is fouled up, anything done to improve it
 makes it worse.
 RUDIN'S LAW: In a crisis that forces a choice to be made among alternative
 courses of action, most people will choose the worst one possible.
 UNNAMED LAW: If it happens, it must be possible.
 CLARKE'S THIRD LAW: Any sufficiently advanced technology is
 indistinguishible from magic.
 GUMPERSON'S LAW: The outcome of a given desired probability will be inverse
 to the degree of desirability.
 (After a salary raise, you will have less money at the end of the
 month than you had before.)
* (The more a recruit knows about a given subject, the better chance
* he has of being assigned to something else.)
 CUTLER WEBSTER'S LAW: There are two sides to every argument unless a
 man is personally involved, in which case there is only one.
 ALBRECHT'S LAW: Social innovations tend to the level of minimum
 tolerable well being.
 PATRICKS'S THEOREM: If the experiment works, you must be using the wrong
 equipment.
 SKINNER'S CONSTANT: (also Fynnegan's Finagling Factor) That quantity
 which, when multiplied by, divided by, added to, or subtracted from
 the answer you got, gives the answer you should have gotton.
 HORNER'S FIVE THUMB POSTULATE: Experience varies directly with the
 equipment ruined.
 FLAOLE'S LAW OF THE PERVERSITY OF INANIMATE OBJECTS: Any inanimate object,
 regardless of its composition or configuration, may be expected
 to perform at any time - in a totally unexpected manner for reasons
 that are either entirely obscure or also completely mysterious.
 ALLEN'S AXIOM: When all else fails, read the instructions.
 THE SPARE PARTS PRINCIPLE: The accessability during recovery of small
 parts which fall from the workbench, varies directly with the size of
 the part, and inversely with its importance to the completion of the work
 underway.
 THE COMPENSATION COROLLARY: The experiment must be considered a success
 if  no more than 50% of the observed measurements must be discarded
 to obtain a correspondence with theory.
 THE ORDERING PRINCIPLE: Those supplies necessary for yesterday's experiment
  must be ordered by no later than noon tomorrow.
 THE ULTIMATE PRINCIPLE: By definition, when you are investigating the
 unknown - you do not know what you will find.
 THE FUTILITY FACTOR: No experiment is ever a complete failure - it can always
 serve as a bad example.
 Why did the chicken cross the road half way?
 He wanted to lay it on the line.
 System stopping for 2 minutes, 1 minute ago.
 YOUR SUBSYSTEM HAS DIED.....
 Startrek makes your sterile
 NEW FORTRAN H EXTENDED - GO TO STATEMENTS ARE NOW ILLEGAL.
 SEE ASPNEWS FOR DETAILS.
 Allison's Precept
    The best simple-minded test of expertise in a particular area is
    the ability to win money in a series of bets on future occurrences
    in that area.
 Corollary to Anthony's Law
    On the way to the corner, any dropped tool will first always
    strike your toes.
 Army Axiom
    Any order that can be misunderstood has been misunderstood.
 Axiom of the Pipe   (Trischmann's Paradox)
    A pipe gives a wise man time to think and a fool something
    to stick in his mouth.
 Baker's Law
    Misery no longer loves company.  Nowadays it insists on it.
 Barber's Laws of Backpacking
      The integral of the gravitational potential taken around
        any loop trail you choose to hike always comes out positive.
      Any stone in your boot always migrates against the
        pressure gradient to exactly the point of most pressure.
      The weight of your pack increases in direct proportion
        to the amount of food you consume from it.  If you
        run out of food, the pack weight goes on increasing anyway.
      The number of stones in your boot is directly
        proportional to the number of hours you have been on the trail.
 Backpacking -
      The size of each of the stones in your boot is directly
        proportional to the number of hours you have been on the trail.
      The remaining distance to your chosen campsite remains constant
        as twilight approaches.
      The net weight of your boots is proportional to the cube of the
        number of hours you have been on the trail.
      When you arrive at your chosen campsite, it is full.
 Forthoffer's Cynical Summary of Barzun's Laws
    1)  That which has not yet been taught directly can never
        be taught directly.
    2)  If at first you don't succeed, you will never succeed.
 Baxter's First Law
    Government intervention in the free market always leads to a
    lower national standard of living.
 Baxter's Second Law
    The adoption of fractional gold reserves in a currency system
    always leads to depreciation, devaluation, demonetization and,
    ultimately, to complete destruction of that currency.
 Baxter's Third Law
    In a free market good money always drives bad money out of
    circulation.
 Becker's Law
    It is much harder to find a job than to keep one.
 Beifeld's Principle
    The probability of a young man meeting a desirable and receptive
    young female increases by pyramidal progression when he is already
    in the company of (1) a date, (2) his wife, and
    (3) a better looking and richer male friend.
 Bicycle Law
    All bicycles weigh 50 pounds:
         A 30-pound bicycle needs a 20-pound lock and chain.
         A 40-pound bicycle needs a 10-pound lock and chain.
         A 50-pound bicycle needs no lock or chain.
 Blaauw's Law
    Established technology tends to persist in spite of new
    technology.
 Booker's Law
    An ounce of application is worth a ton of abstraction.
 Boren's Laws
    1)  When in doubt, mumble.
    2)  When in trouble, delegate.
    3)  When in charge, ponder.
 Brien's First Law
    At some time in the life cycle of virtually every organization,
    its ability to succeed in spite of itself runs out.
 Brook's Law
    Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.
 Brown's Law of Business Success
    Our customer's paperwork is profit. Our own paperwork is loss.
 Bucy's Law
    Nothing is ever accomplished by a reasonable man.
 Bustlin' Billy's Bogus Beliefs
    1)  The organization of any program reflects the organization
        of the people who develop it.
    2)  There is no such thing as a "dirty capitalist," only a
        capitalist.
    3)  Anything is possible, but nothing is easy.
    4)  Capitalism can exist in one of only two states --
        welfare or warfare.
    5)  I'd rather go whoring than warring.
    6)  History proves nothing.
 Bye's First Law of Model Railroading
    Anytime you wish to demonstrate something, the number of faults
    is proportional to the number of viewers.
 Bye's Second Law of Model Railroading
    The desire for modeling a prototype is inversely proportional
    to the decline of the prototype.
 Cahn's Axiom
    When all else fails, read the instructions.
 Camp's Law
    A coup that is known in advance is a coup that does not take place.
 Canada Bill Jones' Motto
    It's morally wrong to allow suckers to keep their money.
 Canada Bill Jones' Supplement
    A Smith and Wesson beats four aces.
 Cheop's Law
    Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.
 Chisholm's Law of Human Interaction
    Anytime things appear to be going better you have overlooked
    something.
 Chisholm's Third Law
    Proposals, as understood by the proposer,
    will be judged otherwise by others.
    Corollary 1:  If you explain so clearly that nobody can
                  misunderstand, somebody will.
    Corollary 2:  If you do something which you are sure will meet
                  with everyone's approval, somebody won't like it.
    Corollary 3:  Procedures devised to implement the purpose
                  won't quite work.
 Churchill's Commentary on Man
    Man will occasionally stumble over the truth but most of the
    time he will pick himself up and continue on.
I STOPPED HERE -------------------------
 Clarke's First Law
    When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something
    is possible, he is almost certainly right.  When he states that
    something is impossible, he is very probably wrong.
 Clarke's Second Law
    The only way to discover the limits of the possible is to go
    beyond them into the impossible.
 Clarke's Third Law
    Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from
    magic.
 Clarke's Law of Revolutionary Ideas
    Every revolutionary idea - in Science, Politics, Art or Whatever -
    evokes three stages of reaction.  They may be summed up by the
    three phrases:
      1)  "It is completely impossible -- don't waste my time."
      2)  "It is possible, but it is not worth doing."
      3)  "I said it was a good idea all along."
 Cohen's Law
    What really matters is the name you succeed in imposing on the
    facts -- not the facts themselves.
 Cole's Law
    Thinly sliced cabbage.
 Commoner's Three Laws of Ecology
    1)  No action is without side-effects.
    2)  Nothing ever goes away.
    3)  There is no free lunch.
 Cook's Law
    Much work -- much food, little work -- little food,
    no work -- burial at sea.
 Cornuelle's Law
    Authority tends to assign jobs to those least able to do them.
 Crane's Law   (Friedman's Reiteration)
    There ain't no such thing as a free lunch.
 Diogenes' First Dictum
    The more heavily a man is supposed to be taxed, the more power
    he has to escape being taxed.
 Diogenes' Second Dictum
    If a taxpayer thinks he can cheat safely, he probably will.
 Dow's Law
    In a hierarchical organization, the higher the level, the
    greater the confusion.
 Dunne's Law
    The territory behind rhetoric is too often mined with equivocation.
 Ehrman's Corollary to Ginsberg's Theorem
    1)  Things will get worse before they get better.
    2)  Who said things would get better.
 Ettorre's Observation
    The other line moves faster.
 Evan's Law of Politics
    When team members are finally in a position to help the team,
    it turns out they have quit the team.
 Everitt's Form of the Second Law of Thermodynamics
    Confusion (entropy) is always increasing in society.  Only if
    someone or something works extremely hard can this confusion be
    reduced to order in a limited region.  Nevertheless, this effort
    will still result in an increase in the total confusion of
    society at large.
 Extended Epstein-Heisenberg Principle
    In an R & D orbit, only 2 of the existing 3 parameters can be
    defined simultaneously.  The parameters are: task, time and
    resources ($).
 Farber's First Law
    Give him an inch and he'll screw you.
 Farber's Second Law
    A hand in the bush is worth two anywhere else.
 Farber's Third Law
    We're all going down the same road in different directions.
 Farber's Fourth Law
    Necessity is the mother of strange bedfellows.
 The Fifth Rule
    You have taken yourself too seriously.
 Finagle's First Law
    If an experiment works, something has gone wrong.
 Finagle's Second Law
    No matter what result is anticipated, there will always be
    someone eager to (a) misinterpret it, (b) fake it, or (c) believe
    it happened to his own pet theory.
 Finagle's Third Law
    In any collection of data, the figure most obviously correct,
    beyond all need of checking, is the mistake.
    Corollary 1:  No one whom you ask for help will see it.
    Corollary 2:  Everyone who stops by with unsought advice
                  will see it immediately.
 Finagle's Fourth Law
    Once a job is fouled up, anything done to improve it only
    makes it worse.
 Finagle's Rules
     In case of doubt, make it sound convincing.
     Experiments should be reproducible.  They should all
     fail in the same way.
     Do not believe in miracles.  Rely on them.
 First Law of Bicycling
    No matter which way you ride it's uphill and against the wind.
 First Law of Bridge
    It's always the partner's fault.
 First Law of Canoeing   (Alfred Andrews' Canoeing Postulate)
    No matter which direction you start it's always against the
    wind coming back.
 First Law of Debate
    Never argue with a fool.  People might not know the difference.
 First Law of Office Holders
    Get re-elected.
 Fitz-Gibbon's Law
    Creativity varies inversely with the number of cooks involved
    with the broth.
 Flap's Law
    Any inanimate object, regardless of its position or
    configuration, may be expected to perform at any time in a
    totally unexpected manner for reasons that are either entirely
    obscure or else completely mysterious.
 Fortis' Three Great Lies of Life
    1)  Money isn't everything.
    2)  It's great to be a Negro.
    3)  I'm only going to put it in a little way.
 Fourteenth Corollary of Atwood's General Law of Dynamic Negatives
    No books are lost by loaning except those you particularly
    wanted to keep.
 Franklin's Rule
    Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall not be
    disappointed.
 Gilb's Laws of Unreliability
    1)  Computers are unreliable, but humans are even more unreliable.
        Corollary:  At the source of every error which is blamed on the
                    computer you will find at least two human errors,
                    including the error of blaming it on the computer.
    2)  Any system which depends on human reliability is unreliable.
 Ginsberg's Theorem
    1)  You can't win.
    2)  You can't break even.
    3)  You can't even quit the game.
 Golden Rules of Indulgence
    Everything in excess!  To enjoy the full flavor of life, take
    big bites.  Moderation is for monks.  Yield to temptation; it may
    never pass your way again.
 Gray's Law of Programming
    n+1 trivial tasks are expected to be accomplished in the same
    time as n trivial tasks.
 Logg's Rebuttal to Gray's Law of Programming
    n+1 trivial tasks take twice as long as n trivial tasks.
 Gresham's Law
    Trivial matters are handled promptly; important matters are never
 solved.
 Whenver possible blame the hardware.
 Grosch's Law
    Computing power increases as the square of the cost.  If you
    want to do it twice as cheaply, you have to do it four times
    as fast.
 Gummidge'e Law
    The amount of expertise varies in inverse proportion to the
    number of statements understood by the general public.
 Gumperson's Law
    The probability of anything happening is in inverse ratio to
    its desirability.
 Hacker's Law of Personnel
    Anyone having supervisory responsibility for the completion of a
    task will invariably protest that more resources are needed.
 Hagerty's Law
    If you lose your temper at a newspaper columnist, he'll get
    rich or famous or both.
 Haldane's Law
    The Universe is not only queerer than we imagine;
    it is queerer than we CAN imagine.
 Harper's Magazine's Law
    You never find an article until you replace it.
 Hartley's First Law
    You can lead a horse to water, but if you can get him to
    float on his back you've got something.
 Hartley's Second Law
    Never sleep with anyone crazier than yourself.
 Harvard Law
    Under the most rigorously controlled conditions of pressure,
    temperature, volume, humidity, and other variables, the
    organism will do as it damn well pleases.
 Heller's Law
    The first myth of management is that it exists.
 Hendrickson's Law
    If a problem causes many meetings, the meetings eventually become
    more important than the problem.
 Hoare's Law of Large Programs
    Inside every large program is a small program struggling
    to get out.
 Horner's Five Thumb Postulate
    Experience varies directly with equipment ruined.
 Howard's First Law of Theater
    Use it.
 Howe's Law
    Every man has a scheme that will not work.
 Hull's Theorem
    The combined pull of several patrons is the sum of their
    separate pulls multiplied by the number of patrons.
 IBM Pollyanna Principle
    Machines should work.  People should think.
 Imhoff's Law
    The organization of any bureaucracy is very much like a septic tank
    -- the REALLY big chunks always rise to the top.
 Iron Law of Distribution
    Them what has - gets.
 Italian Proverb
    She who is silent consents.
 Jacquin's Postulate on Democratic Governments
    No man's life, liberty or property are safe while the
    legislature is in session.
 Jay's Laws of Leadership
    1)  Changing things is central to leadership,
        and changing them before anyone else is creativeness.
    2)  To build something that endures, it is of the greatest
        importance to have a long tenure in office -- to rule for
        many years.  You can achieve a quick success in a year or
        two, but nearly all of the great tycoons have continued
        their building much longer.
 Jenkinson's Law
    It won't work.
 John Cameron's Law
    No matter how many times you've had it, if it's offered,
    take it, because it'll never be quite the same again.
 John's Axiom
    When your opponent is down, kick him.
 John's Collateral Corollary
    In order to get a loan you must first prove you don't need it.
 Johnson's Corollary to Heller's Law
    Nobody really knows what is going on anywhere within your
    organization.
 Johnson's First Law of Auto Repair
    Any tool dropped while repairing an automobile will roll
    under the car to the vehicle's exact geographic center.
 Johnson-Laird's Law
    Toothache tends to start on Saturday night.
 Jones' Law
    The man who can smile when things go wrong has thought
    of someone he can blame it on.
 Jones' Motto
    Friends may come and go, but enemies accumulate.
 Kamin's First Law
    All currencies will decrease in value and purchasing power
    over the long term, unless they are freely and fully convertable
    into gold and that gold is traded freely without restrictions of
    any kind.
 Kamin's Second Law
    Threat of capital controls accelerates marginal capital
    outflows.
 Kamin's Third Law
    Combined total taxation from all levels of government will
    always increase (until the government is replaced by war or
    revolution).
 Kamin's Fourth Law
    Government inflation is always worse than statistics indicate;
    central bankers are biased toward inflation when the money unit is
    non-convertible, and without gold or silver backing.
 Kamin's Fifth Law
    Purchasing power of currency is always lost far more rapidly
    than ever regained.  (Those who expect even fluctuations in both
    directions play a losing game.)
 Kamin's Sixth Law
    When attempting to predict and forcast macro-economic moves or
    economic legislation by a politician, never be misled by what he
    says; instead watch what he does.
 Kamin's Seventh Law
    Politicians will always inflate when given the opportunity.
 Katz's Law
    Men and nations will act rationally when all other
    possibilities have been exhausted.
 Kerr-Martin Law
    1)  In dealing with their OWN problems, faculty members are the
        most extreme conservatives.
    2)  In dealing with OTHER people's problems, they are the
        world's most extreme liberals.
 Kirkland's Law
    The usefulness of any meeting is in inverse proportion to
    the attendance.
 Kitman's Law
    Pure drivel tends to drive off the TV screen ordinary
    drivel.
 Lani's Principles of Economics
    1)  Taxes are not levied for the benefit of the taxed.
    2)  $100 placed at 7% interest compounded quarterly for 200
        years will increase to more than $100,000,000 by which time it
        will be worth nothing.
    3)  In God we trust, all others pay cash.
 La Rochefoucauld's Law
    It is more shameful to distrust one's friends than to be
    deceived by them.
 Law of Communications
    The inevitable result of improved and enlarged communications
    between different levels in a hierarchy is a vastly increased area
    of misunderstanding.
 Law of Computability Applied to Social Science
    If at first you don't succeed, transform your data set.
 Law of Selective Gravity   (The Buttered Side Down Law)
    An object will fall so as to do the most damage.
 Law of the Perversity of Nature   (Mrs. Murphy's Corollary)
    You cannot successfully determine beforehand which side of
    the bread to butter.
 Law of Superiority
    The first example of superior principle is always inferior
    to the developed example of inferior principle.
 Laws of Computerdom According to Golub
    1)  Fuzzy project objectives are used to avoid the embarrassment
        of estimating the corresponding costs.
    2)  A carelessly planned project takes three times longer to
        complete than expected; a carefully planned project will take
        only twice as long.
    3)  The effort required to correct course increases geometrically
        with time.
    4)  Project teams detest weekly progress reporting because it so
        vividly manifests their lack of progress.
 Laws of Computer Programming
    1)  Any given program, when running, is obsolete.
    2)  Any given program costs more and takes longer.
    3)  If a program is useful, it will have to be changed.
    4)  If a program is useless, it will have to be documented.
    5)  Any given program will expand to fill all available
        memory.
    6)  The value of a program is proportional to the weight
        of its output.
 Laws of Gardening
    1)  Other people's tools work only in other people's yards.
    2)  Fanzy gizmos don't work.
    3)  If nobody uses it, there's a reason.
    4)  You get the most of what you need the least.
 Le Chatelier's Law
    If some stress is brought to bear on a system in equilibrium,
    the equilibrium is displaced in the direction which tends to
    undo the effect of the stress.
 Les Miserables Metalaw
    All laws, whether good, bad, or indifferent, must be
    obeyed to the letter.
 Long's Notes
    1)  Always store beer in a dark place.
 Lord Falkland's Rule
    When it is not necessary to make a decision, it is necessary not
    to make a decision.
 Lowery's Law
    If it jams -- force it.  If it breaks, it needed replacing anyway.
 Malek's Law
    Any simple idea will be worded in the most complicated way.
 Malinowski's Law
    Looking from far above, from our high places of safety in
    the developed civilization, it is easy to see all the crudity and
    irrelevance of magic.
 Dean Martin's Definition of Drunkenness
    You're not drunk if you can lie on the floor without holding on.
 Martin-Berthelot Principle
    Of all possible committee reactions to any given agenda item,
    the reaction that will occur is the one which will liberate
    the greatest amount of hot air.
 Match's Maxim
    A fool in a high station is like a man on the top of a high mountain:
    everything appears small to him and he appears small to everybody.
 Matsch's Law
    It is better to have a horrible ending than to have horrors
    without end.
 McClaughry's Codicil on Jone's Motto
    To make an enemy, do someone a favor.
 McClaughry's Law of Zoning
    Where zoning is not needed, it will work perfectly;
    where it is desperately needed, it always breaks down.
 McGoon's Law
    The probability of winning is inversely proportional to
    the amount of the wager.
 McNaughton's Rule
    Any argument worth making within the bureaucracy must be
    capable of being expressed in a simple declarative sentence that
    is obviously true once stated.
 H. L. Mencken's Law
    Those who can -- do.
    Those who cannot -- teach.
    Those who cannot teach -- administrate.  (Martin's extension)
 Merrill's First Corollary
    There are no winners in life; only survivors.
 Merrill's Second Corollary
    In the highway of life, the average happening is of about as
    much true significance as a dead skunk in the middle of the road.
 Meskimen's Law
    There's never time to do it right, but always time to
    do it over.
 Michehl's Theorem
    Less is more.
 Pastore's Comment on Michehl's Theorem
    Nothing is ultimate.
 Miller's Law
    You can't tell how deep a puddle is until you step into it.
 Mobil's Maxim
    Bad regulation begets worse regulation.
 Murphy's First Law
    Nothing is as easy as it looks.
 Murphy's Second Law
    Everything takes longer than you think.
 Murphy's Third Law
    In any field of scientific endeavor, anything that can go
    wrong will go wrong.
 Murphy's Fourth Law
    If there is a possibility of several things going wrong,
    the one that will cause the most damage will be the one to
    go wrong.
 Murphy's Fifth Law
    If anything just cannot go wrong, it will anyway.
 Murphy's Sixth Law
    If you perceive that there are four possible ways in which
    a procedure can go wrong, and circumvent these, then a fifth way,
    unprepared for, will promptly develop.
 Murphy's Seventh Law
    Left to themselves, things tend to go from bad to worse.
 Murphy's Eighth Law
    If everything seems to be going well, you have obviously
    overlooked something.
 Murphy's Ninth Law
    Nature always sides with the hidden flaw.
 Murphy's Tenth Law
    Mother nature is a bitch.
 Murphy's Eleventh Law
    It is impossible to make anything foolproof because
    fools are so ingenious.
 Murphy's Law of Thermodynamics
    Things get worse under pressure.
 Newton's Little-known Seventh Law
    A bird in the hand is safer than one overhead.
 Nienberg's Law
    Progress is made on alternate Fridays.
 Ninety-ten Rule of Project Schedules
    The first ninety percent of the task takes ten percent
    of the time, and the last ten percent takes the other ninety
    percent.
 O'Brien's Principle   (The $357.73 Theory)
    Auditors always reject any expense account with a bottom line
    divisible by 5 or 10.
 Oeser's Law
    There is a tendency for the person in the most powerful
    position in an organization to spend all his time serving
    on committees and signing letters.
 Ordering Principle
    Those supplies necessary for yesterday's experiment must
    be ordered no later than tomorrow noon.
 Osborn's Law
    Variables won't, constants aren't.
 O'Toole's Commentary on Murphy's Laws
    Murphy was an optimist.
 Pardo's Postulates
    1)  Anything good is either illegal, immoral, or fattening.
    2)  The three faithful things in life are money, a dog, and
        an old woman.
    3)  Don't care if you're rich or not, as long as you can live
        comfortably and have everything you want.
 Pareto's Law   (The 20/80 Law)
    20% of the customers account for 80% of the turnover,
    20% of components account for 80% of the cost, and
    so forth.
 Parker's Rule of Parlimentary Procedure
    A motion to adjourn is always in order.
 Parker's Law of Political Statements
    The truth of a proposition has nothing to do with its
    credibility and vice versa.
 Parkinson's First Law
    Work expands to fill the time available for its completion;
    the thing to be done swells in perceived importance and
    complexity in a direct ratio with the time to be spent in
    its completion.
 Parkinson's Second Law
    Expenditures rise to meet income.
 Parkinson's Third Law
    If there is a way to delay an important decision the good
    bureaucracy, public or private, will find it.
 Parkinson's Fourth Law
    The number of people in any working group tends to increase
    regardless of the amount of work to be done.
 Parkinson's Law of Delay
    Delay is the deadliest form of denial.
 Pastore's Truths
    1)  Even paranoids have enemies.
    2)  This job is marginally better than daytime TV.
    3)  On alcohol: four is one more than more than enough.
 Peckham's Law
    Beauty times brains equals a constant.
 Peer's Law
    The solution to a problem changes the problem.
 Peter Principle
    In every hierarchy, whether it be government or business, each
    employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence; every post
    tends to be filled by an employee incompetent to execute its
    duties.
 Peter's Corollaries
    1)  Incompetence knows no barriers of time or place.
    2)  Work is accomplished by those employees who have not yet
        reached their level of incompetence.
    3)  If at first you don't succeed, try something else.
 Peter's Inversion
    Internal consistency is valued more highly than efficiency.
 Peter's Paradox
    Employees in a hierarchy do not really object to incompetence
    in their colleagues.
 Peter's Perfect People Palliative
    Each of us is a mixture of good qualities and some (perhaps)
    not-so-good qualities.  In considering our fellow people we
    should remember their good qualities and realize that their
    faults only prove that they are, after all, human.  We should
    refrain from making harsh judgements of people just because
    they happen to be dirty, rotten, no-good sons-of-bitches.
 Peter's Placebo
    An ounce of image is worth a pound of performance.
 Peter's Theorem
    Incompetence plus incompetence equals incompetence.
 Potter's Law
    The amount of flak received on any subject is inversely
    proportional to the subject's true value.
 Productivity Equation
    The productivity, P, of a group of people is:
         P = N x T x (.55 - .00005 x N x (N - 1) )
    where N is the number of people in the group
    and T is the number of hours in a work period.
 Professor Gordon's Rule of Evolving Bryographic Systems
    While bryographic plants are typically encountered in
    substrata of earthy or mineral matter in concreted state,
    discrete substrata elements occasionally display a roughly
    spherical configuration which, in presence of suitable
    gravitational and other effects, lends itself to combined
    translatory and rotational motion.  One notices in such cases
    an absence of the otherwise typical accretion of bryophyta.
    We therefore conclude that a rolling stone gathers no moss.
 Pudder's Law
    Anything that begins well ends badly.
    Anything that begins badly ends worse.
 Puritan's Law
    Evil is live spelled backwards.
 Puritan's Second Law
    If it feels good, don't do it.
 Q's Law
    No matter what stage of completion one reaches in a North Sea
    (oil) field, the cost of the remainder of the project remains
    the same.
 Rangnekar's Modified Rules Concerning Decisions
    1)  If you must make a decision, delay it.
    2)  If you can authorize someone else to avoid a decision, do so.
    3)  If you can form a committee, have them avoid the decision.
    4)  If you can otherwise avoid a decision, avoid it immediately.
 Rayburn's Rule
    If you want to get along, go along.
 Riddle's Constant
    There are coexisting elements in frustration phenomena which
    separate expected results from achieved results.
 Ross' Law
    Never characterize the importance of a statement in advance.
 Rudin's Law
    In a crisis that forces a choice to be made among alternative
    courses of action, most people will choose the worst one possible.
 Rule of Accuracy
    When working toward the solution of a problem it always
    helps if you know the answer.
 Sam's Axiom
    1)  Any line, however short, is still too long.
    2)  Work is the crabgrass of life, but money is the water
        that keeps it green.
 Sattinger's Law
    It works better if you plug it in.
 Segal's Law
    A man with one watch knows what time it is;
    a man with two watches is never sure.
 Sevareid's Law
    The chief cause of problems is solutions.
 Shalit's Law
    The intensity of movie publicity is in inverse ratio to the
    quality of the movie.
 Shanahan's Law
    The length of a meeting rises with the square of the number of
    people present.
 Shaw's Principle
    Build a system that even a fool can use, and only a fool will
    want to use it.
 Simmon's Law
    The desire for racial integration increases with the square
    of the distance from the actual event.
 Simon's Law
    Everything put together sooner or later falls apart.
 Skinner's Constant   (Flannegan's Finagling Factor)
    That quantity which, when multiplied by, divided by, added to,
    or subtracted from the answer you get, gives you the answer
    you should have gotten.
 Snafu Equations
    1)  Given any problem containing n equations, there will be
        n + 1 unknowns.
    2)  An object or bit of information most needed, will be
        least available.
    3)  Any device requiring service or adjustment will be least
        accessible.
    4)  Interchangable devices won't.
 Sociology's Iron Law of Oligarchy
    In every organized activity, no matter the sphere,
    a small number will become the oligarchial leaders
    and the others will follow.
 Spare Parts Principle
    The accessibility, during recovery of small parts which fall
    from the work bench, varies directly with the size of the
    part and inversely with its importance to the completion of
    work underway.
 Steele's Plagiarism of Somebody's Philosophy
    Everyone should believe in something -- I believe I'll have
    another drink.
 Sturgeon's Law
    90 per cent of everything is crud.
 Swipple Rule of Order
    He who shouts loudest has the floor.
 Terman's Law
    There is no direct relationship between the quality of
    an educational program and its cost.
 Terman's Law of Innovation
    If you want a track team to win the high jump
    you find one person who can jump seven feet,
    not seven people who can jump one foot.
 Theory of the International Society of Philosophic Engineering
    In any calculation, any error which can creep in will.
 Thoreau's Law
    If you see a man approaching with the obvious intent
    of doing you good,  run for your life.
 Transcription Law
    The number of errors made is equal to the number of 'squares'
    employed.
 Truman's Law
    If you cannot convince them, confuse them.
 Truths of Management
    1)  Think before you act; it's not your money.
    2)  All good management is the expression of one great idea.
    3)  No executive devotes effort to proving himself wrong.
    4)  Cash in must exceed cash out.
    5)  Management capability is always less than the
        organization actually needs.
    6)  Either an executive can do his job or he can't.
    7)  If sophisticated calculations are needed to justify an
        action, don't do it.
 Truth 5.1 of Management
    Organizations always have too many managers.
    10) The easiest way of making money is to stop losing it.
 Tuccille's First Law of Reality
    Industry always moves in to fill an economic vacuum.
 Vail's Axiom
    In any human enterprise, work seeks the lowest hierarchial level.
 Vique's Law
    A man without religion is like a fish without a bicycle.
 Vonnegut's Corollary
    Beauty may be only skin deep, but ugliness goes right to the core.
 Weaver's Law
    When several reporters share a cab on an assignment, the
    reporter in the front seat pays for all.
 Weaver's Corollary   (Doyle's Corollary)
    No matter how many reporters share a cab, and no matter who
    pays, each puts the full fare on his own expense account.
 Weber-Fechner Law
    The least change in stimulus necessary to produce a perceptible
    change in response is proportional to the stimulus already existing.
 Weiler's Law
    Nothing is impossible for the man who doesn't have to
    do it himself.
 Weinberg's Law
    If builders built buildings the way programmers wrote programs,
    then the first woodpecker that came along would destroy
    civilization.
 Weinberg's Corollary
    An expert is a person who avoids the small errors
    while sweeping on to the grand fallacy.
 Westheimer's Rule
    To estimate the time it takes to do a task:  estimate
    the time you think it should take, multiply by 2, and change
    the unit of measure to the next highest unit.  Thus we allocate
    2 days for a one hour task.
 White's Chappaquidick Theorem
    The sooner and in more detail you announce bad news, the better.
 White's Observations of Committee Operation
    1)  People very rarely think in groups;
        they talk together, they exchange information, they adjudicate,
        they make compromises.
        But they do not think; they do not create.
    2)  A really new idea affronts current agreement.
 White's Statement
    Don't lose heart...
 Owen's Comment on White's Statement
    ...they might want to cut it out...
 Byrd's Addition to Owen's Comment on White's Statement
    ...and they want to avoid a lengthy search.
 Wiker's Law
    Government expands to absorb revenue and then some.
 Wolf's Law    (An Optimistic View of a Pessimistic World)
    It isn't that things will necessarily go wrong (Murphy's Law),
    but rather that they will take so much more time and effort than you
    think if they are not to go wrong.
 Worker's Dilemma Law   (or Management's Put-Down Law)
    1)  No matter how much you do, you'll never do enough.
    2)  What you don't do is always more important than what
        you do do.
 Wynne's Law
    Negative slack tends to increase.
 Zymurgy's First Law of Evolving System Dynamics
    Once you open a can of worms, the only way to recan them
    is to use a larger can.  (Old worms never die, they just worm their
    way into larger cans).
 Zymurgy's Law on the Availability of Volunteer Labor
    People are always available for work in the past tense.
 Zymurgy's Seventh Exception to Murphy's Laws
    When it rains, it pours.
 Murphy's Laws of Thermodynamics:
    1) You can't win
    2) You can't break even
    3) You can't get out of the game
 Murphy's Law of Selective Gravitation
    An object will alway fall where it can do the most damage.
 Murphy's Law of Physics
    A paritcle will always appear where it shouldn't.
 Murphy's law of the Lab
    You will never have the part you need, and will always have 10
    of every part you don't need.
    Given the need for a resistor of M ohms, and N resistors of
    values K1 to Kn, there will be no way to combine them to = M
 Your files will always expand to fill the available tracks.
 The system will always crash when you are over your track limit,
 and have been editing for the last 3 hours.
 There comes a time in the affairs of man when he must take the
 bull by the tail and face the situation -- W. C. Fields
 A man's reach should exceed his grasp.
 A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
 Haste makes waste.
 He who hesitates is lost.
 Above all, to thine own self be true.
 When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
 It is never too late to learn.
 You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
 Good things come in small packages.
 The bigger, the better.
 There is no point in beating a dead horse.
 If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
 He who hesitates is lost.
 Act in haste, repent at leisure.
 (Look before you leap.)
 Two is company, three is a crowd.
 The more, the merrier.
 ...do it well or not at all.
 Half a loaf is better than none.
 Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
 Better safe than sorry.
 Never judge a book by its cover.
 Clothes make the man.
 Out of sight, out of mind.
 Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
 Many hands make light work.
 Too many cooks spoil the broth.
 Never send a boy to do a man's job.
 ...and a little child shall lead them.
 Actions speak louder than words.
 The pen is mightier than the sword.
 Never change horses in mid-stream.
 Variety is the spice of life.
 Silence is golden.
 The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
 Practice makes perfect.
 All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
 A penny saved is a penny earned.
 The love of money is the root of all evil.
 There is no expedient to which a man will not go to avoid
 the real labor of thinking.
 Be kindly affectionated one to another
 It's much easier to ride a horse the way he is going.
 Belladonna: In Italian, a beautiful lady; in English a deadly poison.
 A striking example of the essential identity of the two tongues.
 (A. Bierce)
 Bigot: One who is obstinately and zealously attached to an opinion
 that you do not entertain. (A. Bierce)
 Bore: A person who talks when you wish him to listen.  (A. Bierce)
 Cabbage: A familiar kitchen-garden vegetable about as large and
 as wise as a man's head.  (A. Bierce)
 Clairvoyant: A person, commonly a woman, who has the power of seeing
 that which is invisible to her patron - namely, that he is a blockhead.
 (A. Bierce)
 Education: That which discloses to the wise and disguises from the
 foolish their lack of understanding.  (A. Bierce)
 Inventor:  A person who makes an ingenious arrangement of wheels,
 levers and springs, and believes it civilization.  (A. Bierce)
 Logic:  The art of thinking and reasoning in strict accordance with
 the limitations and incapacities of the human misunderstanding.  (A. Bierce)
 Mayonnaise:  One of the sauces which serve the French in place of
 a state religion.  (A. Bierce)
 Optimism:  The doctrine that everything is beautiful, including what
 is ugly, everything good, especially the bad, and everything right that
 is wrong. ... It is hereditary, but fortunately not contagious. (A. Bierce)
 A poet who reads his verse in public may have other
 bad habits.
 Never underestimate the power of human stupidity.
 Natural laws have not pity.
 Never try to outstubborn a cat
 The only difference between the fool and the criminal who attacks
  a system is that the fool attacks unpredictably and
  on a broader front.
 Virtue is its own reward, but then so is sin!
 We're all bozos on this bus - Firesign Theater
 We're dumber than we look.
 Everything you know is wrong.
 Why does the porridge bird lay her egg in the air?
 You don't understand how radio works. All you have to do is
 fade your voice down and queue the organist.
 We have met the enemy and he is us. - Pogo
 Please engage brain before setting mouth into motion.
 Mumble.
 You don't need a weatherman to tell which way the wind blows. - Bob Dylan
 Nintey per cent of everything is Garbage. - P. Sturgeon
 There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to
   conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead
   in the introduction of a new order to things. - N. Machiavelli
 Let's look at the record. - Al Smith
 Non illigitum carburundum est. (Don't let the bastards grind you down)
 A man without a God is like a fish without a bicycle.
 The confidence of ignorance will always overcome indecision of knowledge.
 One man's bug is another man's feature
 He who join nudist club pay no cover charge.
 Candy is dandy, but sex won't rot your teeth.
 Candy is dandy, but liquor is quicker.
 Don't vote, it only encourages them.
 Vote for Harris, McCarthy and Prop 14.

                01/10/88
    THE ATLANTA BULLETIN BOARD LIST
              Revision #15
            (Long Version)
     Copyright (c) 1988, OAS, Inc.

        This edition compiled by
       Tim Farley & Ralph Infanti

             Official list
                of the
 Organization of Atlanta Sysops, Inc.

All  known public access bulletin board systems   in  the   toll-free   Atlanta
dialing  area  (404) are shown in  this list.  This file is named ABBL-15L.TXT.
The short version  (i.e.  ABBL-15S.TXT) contains  the  same  system  names  and
numbers,  but  with a  short,  one-line entry  for each system.   As an attempt
is  made to keep this one of  the  most current  local BBS lists offered in the
U.S.,  a request is made to remove  all old  copies  from your  system.  Please
pass this list along freely!

LISTING FORMAT:
<full name of board> ...................................... <phone#> <a>
   <sysop name>; <machine>; <bbs software>; (<b>;<s>;<p>);
   <A long description of the system>. (<city>) (<verification>)

ACCESS: <a> is the access information:
        =  Open access
     R  =  Registration required
     $  =  Donation/payment required.

BAUD RATES: <b> is the baud rate code:
     3 = 300     B = 1200    C = 2400
     F = FastComm 9600
     U = USR HST 9600        M = MNP
     H = Hayes 9600

STORAGE, PROTOCOLS:
     <s>  is  approximate disk  storage online, like 10M for 10 Meg.
     <p> are file transfer protocols:
     X = Xmodem,    C = Xmodem CRC,  Y = Ymodem,  B = Ymodem Batch,
     G = Ymodem G,  W = WXmodem,     Z = Zmodem,
     K = Kermit,    T = Telink,      P = Punter (C-64)

VERIFICATION <v> of systems:
     V  =  Verified
     B  =  Busy
     NA =  No Answer
     NN =  New phone Number

TERMINAL PARAMETERS:
      All  systems  are  8-N-1  (i.e. 8 data bits, no parity, 1 stop bit).
      If (7-E-1) is seen,  set up for 7 data bits and even parity.

HOURS:
      All system 24hrs/day, unless note mentions otherwise.
      W/D = Weekdays.   W/E =  Weekends (Saturday & Sunday)

======================================================================
[ Section 1. OAS Members:
[ These adhere to OAS Standards.

Adam-IBM Connection ....................................... 424-6258
   Scott Earley; IBM PC-XT; PC Board; (3BC;30M;XCY); The nation's
   first BBS exclusively for Coleco Adam users now also supports
   IBM PC's and compatibles. Three sub-boards. Downloads for
   CP/M, ADAM and IBM. Formerly Adam SmartLink. (Marietta)
   (V:01/01)
Atlanta Macintosh Users Group BBS (AMUG BBS) .... 972-3389, 985-0265 R$
   Ron Patterson; PC-XT clone; PC Board; (3BC;85M;XCY);
   Macintosh ONLY supported. Up/downloads. Official BBS of
   Atlanta Mac Users Group. First line is open to public, second
   is members only. (Norcross) (V:01/01)
Atlanta Chatline .......................................... 922-2428 R$
   Bill Noel; Apple //e; custom?; (3;N;N); 6-line Chat program in
   24-hour operation.  Must register to use. Send $1.00 fee for
   temporary password, plus name, address, phone and age to: The
   Booth, P.O. Box 80425, Conyers, GA  30208. Checks to Bill
   Noel. (Conyers) (V:01/01)
Atlanta Connection #1  (133/205) .......................... 929-0800 R
   Bill Noel; IBM PC clone; TBBS; (3BC;11M;?); Multiple adult and
   teen message bases, private mail, large national and
   specialized BBS lists. One of Atlanta's longest continually
   active BBS's as well as one of the most active.  Second and
   third line are $15 per year. (Conyers) (V:01/01)
Austell Georgia RBBS-PC ................................... 944-0826
   Dave Howard; Tandy 3000HD; RBBS-PC; (3BCF;30M;XCK); IBM PC's
   and compatibles only.  Running on Fastcomm 2496 high speed
   modem which supports up to 19,200 baud. (Austell) (B:01/08)
AV-Sync Atlanta ........................................... 320-6202 R$
   Bill Tullis; IBM PC-AT; PC Board; (3BC;400M;XCYG); The LOGICAL
   exchange for video, audio, post-production and broadcast
   engineering professionals.  Audio, video, film, RF & FCC
   issues.  By subscription.  4 nodes online. File support for
   IBM, Apple and MIDI users. (Atlanta) (V:01/07)
Big Peach BBS ............................................. 446-6650
   Marshall Magee; IBM PC; PC Board; (BC;?;XCYG); Home of
   Automenu(tm), the Software Management System; and Southeastern
   Distribution point for Shareware.  Shareware ONLY in files
   section, NO Public Domain.  Shareware authors conference,
   Automenu user support. (Norcross) (V:01/01)
Bill's Obsession BBS ...................................... 377-2550
   William Erickson; IBM PC; RBBS-PC; (3BC;?;XC); For IBM and
   compatible computer users. Many conferences, including
   CLONEIT, EXPLORE, FORUM, FAITH, GAMES, JOBS, JOKES,
   PROGRAMMING, SF, SHOPPER and the infamous MAX. (Decatur)
   (V:01/01)
Birds Nest BBS ............................................ 751-0252
   Tom Henn; Tandy 1000HD; ?; (3B;10M;?); For Tandy 1000 &
   MS-DOS. Sister board to The Right Place. Dedicated to the
   common exchange of Knowledge, Help and Ideas. (Alpharetta)
   (V:01/04)
Centurion BBS,  (133/302) ................................. 296-9681
   Steve Antonoff; IBM PC; Opus; (3BCUM;80M;XCYGSZ); Run By
   Centurion Software Corp. Regional and National EchoMail groups
   online.  Support of Centurion Software products including
   CSCSTOCK and PP. (Stone Mountain) (V:01/01)
Cider City ................................................ 446-9048 R
   Steve Park; Apple //e; GBBS Pro; (3BCH;10M;X); Apple &
   Macintosh supported in multiple bases. Many message bases
   supported. (Norcross) (NN:01/09)
The Corner Drug Store ..................................... 422-1060
   Joe Skehan; PC clone; PC Board; (3BC;20M;XCYG); For U.S. Micro
   customers, Novell NetWare users wanting software updates and
   technical bulletins, and for the general public.  IBM-PC
   oriented. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Data-World BBS ............................................ 289-2050
   Jim Foust - WB4LBM; IBM-PC; PC Board; (3BC;20M;XCY); HAM
   radio, CP/M and MS-DOS.  Conferences include Personal
   (customers only), SwapShop, Sysops and Christian.  Bible verse
   of the day online. (Decatur) (V:01/01)
Decibel BBS ............................................... 288-6858 R$
   Tom Brady; PC-Clone; T-Comm; (3BCUM;200M;XCYZK); System open
   to all. Release point for newest NUBYE and NUKMD programs.
   Dealer for US Robotics modems, hard disk drives, Z-80 clocks,
   etc.  Interested in CP/M, MS-DOS and all computer related
   subjects.  15,000+ files online! (Decatur) (V:01/01)
Donovan's Reef ............................................ 642-4690
   Jacob Donovan; Apple //e; GBBS Pro; (3B;10M;?); Teen-oriented.
   (Woodstock) (V:01/10)
The Electronic Auto Trader BBS ............................ 633-2886
   Barney Cortell; Beltron PC; RBBS-PC; (3B;30M;XCY); Buy, sell,
   trade autos and other vehicles.  Search by make, model, cost,
   year, color and milage.  Do comparison shopping without
   reading the paper or making multiple phone calls! (Atlanta)
   (V:01/01)
Fantasia's Forest ......................................... 762-1471
   Fantasia; IBM; custom JJABBS; (3B;?;XC); Conversation-oriented
   (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Fido of the South (Fidonet #3) (Fido 133/2) ............... 448-0686
   Lane Fowler; IBM PC-AT; Fido; (3B;40M;XCKT); Largest Kaypro
   and Commodore files sections in Atlanta area. Official BBS of
   Stone Mountain Commodore Users' Group. Member of Fidonet
   system. Open access. (Lawrenceville) (B:01/08)
FTL BBS ................................................... 292-8761
   Robert S. Vostreys; Tandy 1200; PC Board; (3B;10M;XCYG);
   Science fiction, gaming.  TradeWars and Diplomacy doors
   online.  Conferences include Tech/Science, SF & Games, Trivia
   Zone, Diplomacy and Advanced Dungeons & Dragons. (Stone
   Mountain) (V:01/01)
Garden of Eden ............................................ 445-0723 R
   Sherman Murdock; IBM PC-XT; Nochange; (3B;20M;?); Major
   support for ADAM and IBM computers. Online games. (Dallas)
   (V:01/01)
Georgia BBS ..................................... 457-6815, 454-7394
   Joe White; Turbo XT; PC Board; (3BCUM;62M;XCY); IBM and
   compatibles only! Thousands of files available. Graphics
   supported. 3 conferences: Advertisements, Games and Sysops.
   All system is open access, except for Sysops conference.
   (Atlanta) (V:01/07)
Gonzoland ................................................. 974-1521
   Jim McAnally; IBM; RBBS-PC; (3B;?;?); General, Adult sections
   (Acworth) (V:01/01)
The Head-Board III ........................................ 394-8327
   Iverson Bell, M.D.; Franklin Ace 1000; GBBS II; (3;286K;X);
   Dedicated to "thoughtware". Groups include Poetry, Group
   Support, Complaints and an anonymous section. No General
   Files, Games or Downloads! (Decatur) (V:01/01)
Input/Output Connection ................................... 446-8044 R
   Ken & Jim Mauragus; Atari; Forem; (3BC;1M;?); Atari 8, 16 bit
   computers, but all welcome. Six message bases, downloads.
   (Norcross) (V:01/01)
The Index System I  (133/201) ............................. 951-1540 R$
   Rodney A. Aloia; PC?; TBBS; (3BC;5M;XC); Email, movie reviews,
   national & local BBS lists, and more. Specializes in Tandy &
   Apple, but has bases for CoCo and others. Also Electronic
   shopping mall, Ads, Movie reviews, etc.  A Division of R&R
   Enterprises. (Atlanta) (V:01/07)
ISIS (Intecolor Support Information System) ............... 446-6931
   George Price; IBM PC; PC Board; (B;12M;XCY); Intecolor
   customers only, please. Run by Intecolor tech support group.
   Manual updates, tech info, news, product updates, tech
   support, and a focal point for Intecolor users.  Up/downloads
   available. For registered owners. (Norcross) (V:01/01)
JOBBS! .................................................... 992-8937
   William Griffin; PC-Clone; custom FoxBase; (3B;16M;N);
   Country's first BBS devoted to job listings. Specializes in
   job searches for professionals. Company has contacts in 12
   southeastern states. STC Subscriber (BBH715). Alpha Systems,
   Inc. 1510 Oakfield, Roswell, GA  30075 (Roswell) (V:01/01)
Jodeco House BBS .......................................... 478-7761
   Beth & Bob Jarvis; IBM clone; Forem PC; (3BC;20M;LL); All
   visitors welcome. Supports MS-DOS, 8 and 16-bit Atari.
   Conferences include Stately Oaks, 8 bit Atari, MS-DOS,
   Southside User Group, Atari ST, Sci-Fi, For Sale and Forum.
   (Jonesboro) (V:01/01)
Kasper's TI ............................................... 939-0526
   Stephen Kasper; TI 99/4a; custom; (3;?;?); (7-E-1) TI-99's and
   general.  40 columns. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Le Chateau ................................................ 593-2828
   Lady Morgana; Atari 320XE; BBS Express; (3B;760K;X); Adult
   Sections, General, Politics/religion, Music, books/movies,
   Sports/Games, Text downloads ONLY, Handles allowed. (Lithonia)
   (NN:01/08)
Main Street BBS ........................................... 924-8593
   Jolinda Cooper; IBM PC; PC Board; (3B;?;XCY); All welcome.
   Conferences include:  Curmudgeon's Conference, Library, Music
   Room, Bar, VIP table, Parlor and Technical.  Still under
   construction. (Woodstock) (V:01/01)
Milo's Meadow ............................................. 972-3458
   Mike Sirmans; IBM PC; RBBS-PC; (3BC;20M;XC); Extensive support
   for most popular programming languages, including C, Turbo
   Pascal, 808x Assembler, BASIC, Forth, Prolog, and other
   interests. Supports ANSI color menus. Formerly "Zap! BBS".
   (Snellville) (V:01/01)
NASPA Systems SE  (133/301) ............................... 441-1431 R
   Robert Weatherford; IBM PC; Fido; (BCH;?;?); Communications,
   National and Local EchoMail areas available. (Norcross)
   (V:01/01)
Nochange #1 ............................................... 641-8270
   Jim Kloss; IBM PC AT; Nochange; (3BC;20M;XCYK); IBM, general.
   Software Developer for Nochange BBS and XChange file transfer
   system.  Customer support provided. (Roswell) (B:01/08)
Norcross RCP/M MBBS ....................................... 921-1116
   Jim Gooch; Datavue 3000 CP/M; MBBS; (3BC;15M;XCY); MBBS:
   public, CP/M: requires question.  Interest in dBaseII, comm
   progs 8 bit .ASM files. (Norcross) (V:01/01)
The OASis ................................................. 288-0547 R
   Tim Farley; Xerox 820-II; ROS; (3BCUM;8M;XCY); Contact
   point for OAS, for both users and sysops in the Atlanta area.
   Discussions of tips, legal issues, news developments.  Text
   files include BBS lists, file transfer protocol documents,
   etc.  All welcome (Decatur) (V:01/09)
One of a Kind BBS ......................................... 455-1271 R
   Douglas Voss; Epson Equity II; PC Board; (3BCUM;91M;XCYG);
   General, MS-DOS/text file. Four public conferences, two
   private. Topics include Sandbox, Politics, Games, Tech, Mercer
   and Sysops.  Several popular Doors online, including
   TradeWars, Chess and Voting. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
PC-Link ................................................... 921-8108
   James Kerr; IBM PC; PC Board; (3BC;75M;XCY); IBM, user
   supported.  Conferences include: CHRISTIAN, REAL ESTATE,
   SUPPORT, THE MALL, HELP, EGA and RELIGION.  Doors include:
   Weather prediction, Ymodem batch & Zmodem, Darwin national BBS
   search, TradeWars & SafeCracker. (Lilburn) (V:01/01)
Pecan Pi .................................................. 454-8756
   Stan Young & Bill Lamp'l; IBM PC; RBBS-PC; (3BC;40M;XCKY);
   Technically oriented, conferences on algorithms, hardware,
   humor, brain teasers, For Sale. (Doraville) (V:01/01)
The Plexus ................................................ 768-0990 R
   Robert Orr; Sanyo PC-Clone; PC Board; (3BCM;10M;XCY); For
   Sanyo & MS-DOS computers. A service of Microplex, Inc. for its
   customers and others. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
The Right Place ........................................... 476-2607 R
   Roger Sligar; AT clone; PC Board; (3BCUM;142M;XCYZ); PC/MS-DOS
   uploads and downloads, specializing in utilities. General
   interest.  Technical help from Sysop, several message bases.
   French language support. (Duluth) (V:01/01)
The Rock 'N' Roll Party ................................... 982-0960
   Tricia Hudson, B. Helbush; PC XT; PC Board; (3B;20M;XCY); For
   Broadcasting professionals and their audiences. Welcome!
   Featuring Radio, News, Music, Art, Tech and "Looking for
   Trouble" (adult) conferences. No files. Graphics-oriented as
   well. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Sharp Electronics EBS Div. Tech Support Line .............. 962-1788 R
   Gary Meeker; Sharp PC 7100; PC Board; (3B;30M;XCY); Technical
   support. Conferences:  PC Magazine, PC-Tech, Languages,
   General, Sharp employees, users of Sharp Personal Computers.
   (Lawrenceville) (V:01/01)
The Software Shop #1 ...................................... 964-4483
   Billy Brand; Kaypro 286i; PC Board; (3BC;64M;XCYG); General,
   IBM, Door games, liberal time limits (Fayetteville) (V:01/01)
The Software Shop BBS ..................................... 968-1826 R$
   Robert Pierce; IBM AT; PC Board; (3BC;65M;XCYG); IBM &
   compatibles welcome, doors available. (Forest Park) (V:01/01)
The Swamp (133/304) ....................................... 447-6403
   Kris Fussell; IBM PC; Opus; (3BCUM;60M;XCYTK); IBM, Atari ST
   and Macintosh computers supported online. (Norcross) (V:01/01)
TJ's Place BBS .................................. 392-1756, 394-1756 R$
   Jimmy Lehmkuhl; IBM PC; PC Board; (3BC;60M;XCY); IBM oriented.
    All sysops welcome: sysops conference online. First line
   public, second one private. Mail registration required for
   full access: $25.00 per year. (Dunwoody) (V:01/01)
True Blue BBS ............................................. 987-5235 R
   Fred McClaren; IBM-PC; PC Board; (BC;?;?); General interest
   with several message bases including: IBM, Network, Sysops,
   Tech, Ads, Investor, TV/Movies, Sports, Files.  Node #19 of
   the national PCBoard EchoMail network. (Panola) (V:01/01)
Westfield Express BBS ..................................... 435-8122 R
   Mark Gill; Tandy 1000 SX; PC Board; (BC;42M;XCY); For Tandy
   systems (i.e. 1000, 1000HD, etc...) Sysops conference. Mail
   registration only. BBS program uploads and downloads available
   to verified users only. Donations allow extra time online.
   (Smyrna) (V:01/01)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
[ Section 2. NEW Since last list:

The AERODROME ............................................. 822-0620 R$
   PILOT; Amiga; BBS-PC; (3BC;65M;XCYKZ); Supporting the
   Commodore Amiga.  Trial period of 2 weeks, then $10 per year
   required for access.  Message bases include: General,
   Programmers, Problems-Solutions, Hardware, For-Sale. (?)
   (V:01/09)
The Afterglow BBS ......................................... 975-3875
   Dr. DeMento; Apple //e; GBBS Pro; (3B;286K;N); General, adult,
   singles and teen sections. Message oriented, with gaming.
   Message areas include General, Shopping, Flea Market, Adult,
   Game, Teens and Singles. (Emerson) (V:01/07)
Alpha Complex ............................................. 451-7820
   The Computer & The Magi; Atari ST; BBS Express; (3B;?;?);
   Atari.  Exchange of info, files. (Atlanta?) (V:01/07)
The Amiga Vortex .......................................... 395-9736 R
   ?; Amiga; BBS-PC; (3BC;?;?); For members of Amiga Atlanta,
   Inc. and selected vendors.  3+ message bases. (Atlanta)
   (V:01/09)
Arrow Action Line ......................................... 662-0732
   Rick Ruhl; IBM; PC Board; (3BCUM;?;XCY); Customer support for
   Arrow Electronics, Inc.  Conferences include Programmers,
   Sharp Portable, Hardware, Altos, and Desktop Publishing.
   (Norcross) (V:01/07)
The Atlanta Exchange ...................................... 921-4395 R
   Ken Cherry; PC clone; PC Board; (BC;?;XCY); IBM PC &
   compatibles software exchange, and DEC home users exchange.
   Message bases for dBase/Clipper, Greene's corner, Atlanta
   Drive Services, JCI Battery, and Sysops. (Lilburn) (V:01/09)
CHEROKEE  (133/102) ....................................... 928-1429 R
   Ken Shackelford; IBM PC-AT; Opus; (3BC;40M;XCYKT); Message
   oriented system, sister system to ATLGATE, 133/100.
   Metro-Atlanta FidoNet BackBone Collection/Distribution system.
   31 message areas including local and national EchoMail
   groups. (Woodstock) (V:01/07)
The Computer Connector .................................... 928-5659
   The Professor; 9am-4pm, 9pm-8am; Corona PC; PC Board; (3B;10M;XC);
   Technically oriented support board, with product information,
   repair sources, do-it-yourself projects,  etc.  Conferences
   include: Tech Notebook,  Programmer's Haven, Shopper's Guide.
   Soon moving to 386 with 50M drive. (Acworth) (V:01/08)
The Conference System BBS ................................. 433-0689 R$
   Jimmy Dingess; IBM; PC Board; (3BC;31M;XCYZ); Conference
   oriented IBM system includes areas for Ads, Games, Religion,
   Cars, Politics, Humor, Sports and Sysops.  Optional $12 annual
   fee grants higher access.  Sysop priviledges extended.
   ProDoor downloads available. (Smyrna) (V:01/08)
The Education Center ...................................... 924-7963 R
   Michael Austin; IBM; PC Board; (3BC;?;XCY); Explorer Post 036
   BBS.  Everyone welcome, especially from other explorer posts.
   Additional access for $5 donation.  Conferences: Hobbies,
   Programming, Hardware, Science Fiction, ANSI Graphics, Fun
   Spots, Boiler Room. (Woodstock) (V:01/10)
Excalibur BBS ............................................. 879-0319
   Lord British; C-64; C-Net; (B;?;?); No 300 baud. (Stone
   Mountain) (V:01/10)
Fitted Software Tools' Support BBS ........................ 497-0931 R
   ?; PC clone; PC Board; (3BC;?;XCY); Private BBS to distribute
   FST's ShareWare products, and to provide support and updates
   to users.  New users can only download the shareware product.
   BIX conference, Association ShareWare Professionals member.
   (Duluth) (V:01/08)
Heavenly Pleasures ........................................ 289-8058
   Pleasure; Atari 130XE; BBS Express; (3;320K;X); Adult ONLY,
   Multiple message bases, Text downloads only, Handles Allowed.
   (Decatur) (V:01/08)
The Invisible BBS ......................................... 993-5310 R$
   Dick Caliendo; PC Clone; PC Board; (BC;42M;XCYZWK); IBM
   compatibles-oriented.  No games.  Conferences include sysops,
   ads.  Members can be registered for $20.00. (Marietta)
   (V:01/09)
JoKeR's BBS  (133/303) .................................... 894-5784 R
   J. Kenneth Riviere; 5:30pm-8am, 24hrs W/E; IBM; Opus; (3BC;?;XCYZKT);
   Comic book collectors.  FidoNet EchoMail available. (Atlanta)
   (V:01/08)
The Main Line ............................................. 294-8738 R
   ?; C-128; C-Net 128; (3B;500K;XP); C-64, C-128. (Atlanta)
   (V:01/08)
Mountain Park Fido  (133/16) .............................. 587-5792 R
   Warren H. Tucker; IBM?; Fido; (3B;?;XCYKT);   (Mountain Park)
   (V:01/08)
PC-Atlanta  (133/307) ..................................... 381-6975
   Bart Alcorn; IBM?; Opus; (3BCUM;?;XCYKT); Home of STARFLEET
   Atlanta, for fans of Star Trek.  Carries many file and message
   areas.  EchoMail supports the national StarFleet and Star Trek
   EchoMail groups as well as others. (Norcross) (V:01/08)
Programmer's Information Exchange ......................... 928-0033 R$
   Tony Elliott; IBM PC; PC Board; (BC;?;XCYGK); Specializing in
   Microsoft QuickBasic, Pascal and C.  Node 10 of EchoMail
   Network. (Woodstock) (V:01/06)
Smuggler's Haven .......................................... 925-8829
   Red Beard; C-64; C-Net; (3B;?;?); Commodore board.  Affiliated
   with S.M.U.G. and C.U.G.A. (Lilburn) (V:01/07)
The Star Trek Convention .................................. 487-1376 R
   Captain; C-128; C-Net 128; (3B;N;N); Message oriented, with a
   few special-access downloads.  Dedicated solely to fans of the
   TV series Star Trek.  Message areas include: General Quarters,
   Trivia, Entertainment, Conventions, Trading Post, BBS Ads and
   Graphics. (Peachtree City) (V:01/07)
STAR*LIGHT ................................................ 739-1329 R
   Magician Trent; C-64; ?; (3B;?;XP); C-64 oriented.  Both files
   and message bases available. (Riverdale) (V:01/06)
Xystus .................................................... 885-9941
   Tempus; PC; Emulex; (3B;?;?); Role playing, general (Atlanta)
   (V:01/06)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
[ Section 3. Active systems:

99er BBS (Atlanta TI 99/4a Users Group BBS) ............... 991-6250
   James A. Fairchild; TI 99/4a; 99 BBS; (3B;1M;L); TI 99/4a
   users, but all welcome. In support of the TI User's Group of
   Atlanta. Club info on line. Callers must be validated on-line.
   Use 7 bits, even parity, 1 stop bit when calling. (College
   Park) (V:01/01)
Atlanta Computer Society Members BBS ...................... 564-9706
   Joe Novosel; Heath HS-151-20; PC Board; (3BC;20M;XC); Atlanta
   Computer Society Inc's BBS.  Exchange of Public Domain
   software amongst ACS members. Provide message exchange for
   computer users and further the educational and scientific
   purposes of ACS. Coco, OS/9 & 68xxx support. (Atlanta)
   (NN:01/07)
Atlanta TI 99/4a Users Group BBS #1 ....................... 366-1914
   Charles Dupree - WD4MDC; TI-99/4a; TIBBS; (3B;?;L); Atlanta
   99/4a Computer User's Group BBS. TI uploads and downloads,
   club has large program library off-line. Supports TI color
   graphics. Use 7 bits, even parity, 1 stop bit when calling.
   (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Atlanta Area Pick Users Group BBS ......................... 969-0618 R
   Doug Dumitru; IBM PC?; PC Board; (3B;?;XCY); For users of the
   Pick Operating system on various computers. Five conferences
   include Programmers, Job openings, Industry News, For Sale and
   Service listings. Sponsored by Modular Software Corporation.
   (Union City) (V:01/01)
Atlanta Electronic Service Center BBS ..................... 381-1947 R$
   Mike Sabot; Baby PC-AT; PC Board; (3BCF;300M;XCYG); Supports
   Smart Users Group of Georgia.  Home of the PCBDaily program.
   $20/year for full access. (Lilburn) (V:01/09)
Amos & Andy's ............................................. 448-4554
   Kingfish; IBM PS/2 Mod 25; Nochange; (3BC;20M;?); Dedicated to
   gaming, games on line. (Norcross) (NA:01/07)
Apple Atlanta ............................................. 636-1341 R
   The Stalker; Laser 128; GBBS Pro; (3BC;N;N); Apple & other
   computers.  Multiple message bases. (Decatur) (V:01/01)
ARC BBS ................................................... 393-3083
   ?; ?; ?; (3BC;?;?); Atlanta Ham Radio Club BBS. (Dunwoody)
   (V:01/01)
Atlanta L-5 BBS ........................................... 993-2207 R
   Dan Scheltema; IBM PC?; Fido; (3B;?;XCYT); L-5 Society's local
   electronic contact point. Provides an open forum on issues
   regarding space development, communication between L-5
   members, and electronic communication for local chapter
   business. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Atlanta Medical Forum  (133/204) .......................... 351-9757
   Floyd P. Garrett, M.D.; IBM PC?; TBBS; (3BC;20M;N); All
   interested in health care, computers, or mature discussions on
   about any topic. This system has merged with Behavioral
   Medicine Associates BBS. Donations encouraged but not
   required. (Atlanta) (V:01/08)
Atlanta Microplex ......................................... now down R
   Scott Sage; ?; ?; (3BC;?;?); Atari ST & IBM.  All welcome.
   (Tucker) (NA:01/08)
Atlanta On-Line ................................. 928-9675, 928-8201
   Stephen R. Williamson; Six Apple //e's; Let's Talk; (3B;60M;N);
   Six incoming lines, soon to be ten. Menu-driven on-line
   consumer information service (like Compuserve or Source) but
   local and free. Lots of online services.  Member, National
   Data Broadcasting Network. (Woodstock) (V:01/01)
ATLGATE  (133/101) ........................................ 928-1876 R$
   Ken Shackelford; 8 am - 10 pm; IBM PC-AT; Opus; (3BCUM;60M;XCKT);
   Atlanta's oldest IBM BBS, Online since 1982. On-line
   verification, optional $25 yearly donation. Sister board to
   Cherokee, shares same message bases. Over 60 message areas,
   including local, regional & national EchoMail groups
   (Woodstock) (V:01/08)
AST's Engineering & AutoCAD BBS  (133/6) .................. 633-2197
   Steve Fox; IBM PC; Fido; (3B;10M;XCKT); Applied Software
   Technology, Inc.'s, BBS devoted to the Georgia AutoCAD User's
   Group and the ASCE Computer Committee.  8 message bases,
   AutoCAD & other files. Supports FidoNet and EchoMail.
   (Atlanta) (V:01/08)
The Back Seat ............................................. 739-0052 R
   Steven Keller; Apple //; SKBBS+; (3B;289K;N); Social Board, 3
   message bases, handles allowed, creativity encouraged.
   (Austell) (V:01/01)
Bare Bones (133/305) ...................................... 987-3972
   Mike Hancock; IBM?; Opus?; (3BC;?;?); IBM PC-Jr Support
   (Panola) (V:01/01)
Buford Byte Size BBS ...................................... 945-6021
   ?; Atari?; ?; (3B;?;?); Atari.  Sister system to I/O
   Connection. (Buford) (V:01/01)
Byte Connection ........................................... 941-0159 R
   Greg Maddux; Atari 800xl; Forem XL; (3BC;5M;X); All computer
   types welcome. Electronic shopping guide, hundreds of Atari
   downloads available, both 8-bit and for the "ST". (Austell)
   (V:01/02)
Byte Flight  (133/306) .................................... 454-8795 R
   Mark Hulsey; PC Clone; Opus; (BCUM;80M;XCYKT); IBM &
   Compatibles.  15+ message areas including many national
   EchoMail conferences.  Over 15 file areas as well. (Chamblee)
   (V:01/08)
The C & Turbo Exchange .................................... 263-1151
   Paul Kurr; IBM PC-AT; RBBS-PC; (3BC;?;XCK); C & Pascal files
   and message bases relating to Borland products.  Also
   interested in all programming languages.  Conferences on BBS
   design, and a public domain compiler project: OPUS. (Norcross)
   (V:01/01)
Cam's Wildcat House ....................................... 461-5947 R$
   Cam DeBuck; IBM PC?; Wildcat; (BC;?;?); Users register by
   mail.  Unregistered user can call on the 1st through 7th of
   each month, for trial access until the 15th.  Full access is
   $21/year or $15 for 6 months.  Formerly Fayette Genesis.
   (Fayetteville) (V:01/09)
Comm-Adorers BBS .......................................... 422-2250
   Jon Proctor; C-128; custom; (3;?;?); C-64, C-128, general.
   ISOPIA, the BBS is down, but will return as a game program.
   (Marietta) (V:01/09)
Commodore Colorama ........................................ 932-0039
   STRINGBEAn; 5pm-6am; C-64; C-Net; (3B;1.3M;XP); C-64 support.
   Formerly Bean Patch. Will be going to Ribit software soon. 1
   Meg to be added by the time you read this. (Buford) (V:01/04)
ComPro, A Commodore Professional System ................... 943-9648
   Gordon Leslie; C-128; C-Net; (3B;13M;XP); Five message bases,
   five U/D boards.  Commodore hobbyists, mainly. No 300 Baud
   7pm to 11pm. (Powder Springs) (V:01/01)
Comuserve ................................................. 435-6690 R
   Bryan Smith; C-64; custom C-Net 11.0; (3B;11M;P); For serious
   C-64 users only. Access is verified. Affiliated with
   Commodore's Corner boards. Multiple downloads. Assistance with
   programming and interfacing from sysop, who is a Commodore
   technician.  $15.00 one-time fee. (Smyrna) (V:01/01)
Crosstalk Communications BBS .............................. 998-8048
   Maria Forrest, L. Higgins; IBM PC; RBBS-PC; (3BC;?;X); Service
   to users of Crosstalk and other Microstuf products, including
   Infoscope, Transporter and Remote. Open to public, but
   customers get extra time and privileges. (Roswell) (V:01/01)
Crosstalk Communication's Crosstalk Mk.4 BBS .............. 641-1803
   Maria A. Forrest; IBM-PC; PC Board; (3BC;?;XCYG); Support for
   Crosstalk Mk.4 users.  Crosstalk XVI, Transporter and Remote
   users should call the regular Crosstalk Communcations BBS.
   (Roswell) (V:01/01)
Crystal Palace ............................................ 299-5511 R$
   Jon Carr; Apple II; GBBS II; (3BC;?;?); Seven message bases
   plus E-mail.  Must register by mail: call system for form and
   address to mail to. (Decatur) (V:01/01)
Dallas RBBS ............................................... 443-2421
   Dave Bailey, J. Campbell; IBM; RBBS-PC; (3BC;30M;XC); IBM
   system (Douglasville) (V:01/01)
Digit's ................................................... 925-0361
   Loone; C-64?; C-Net; (3B;?;?); C-64. (Lilburn) (V:01/01)
Dim_Sum  (133/5) .......................................... 881-0658
   ?; IBM PC; Fido; (3B;?;?); Online magazine, EECAD, Fidonet
   support. (Atlanta) (NA:01/08)
Discovery BBS ............................................. 427-6871
   ?; 9:30am-11:30pm; C-128; C-Net 128; (3B;340K;XP);
   (Marietta) (NA:01/08)
E/T's BBS ................................................. 962-8477
   E/T; IBM PC; Emulex; (3BC;?;?); Apple, Commodore and other
   sub-boards. (Lawrenceville) (V:01/01)
Express Lane .............................................. 564-3688
   ?; ?; ?; (3B;?;?); Go ATASCII, Online Quest. (Lilburn)
   (V:01/02)
Flagship Express RBBS ........................... 934-4515, 934-4517 R$
   F. Huggins & H. Pierce; IBM PC-AT; PC Board; (BC;60M;XCY);
   Second phone for paying users only. IBM's & compatibles only.
   Free mail registration, but $30/yr for extended access. ANSI
   Color Graphics. Over 1500 files on line. Five conferences
   include: Aviation, Games, Sysops, Classified (Stone Mountain)
   (V:01/01)
Flash Backs ............................................... 975-0806
   ?; ?; ?; (3B;?;?); Into 60's Music.  No downloads. (Acworth)
   (V:01/02)
Ham's BBS ................................................. 363-1640
   Larry M. Lord - WA4CBT; TI99/4a; TIBBS; (3BC;?;L); HAM
   oriented, mainly for TI users, but all welcome.  National
   TIBBS list online.  Hamfest listings online.  Special TI
   protocol needed for downloads.  Use 7 bits, even parity, 1
   stop bit when calling. (Forest Park) (V:01/01)
Heath/Zenith BBS .......................................... 252-4345 R
   Al Kuntzler; Zenith ZW-158-42; PC Board; (3B;10M;XC); Publicly
   accessible message base, members of HUG-GA get access to
   download areas as well. Color graphics support. Sponsored by
   Heath/Zenith Computer Store #22. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Illumi-Net ................................................ 377-1141
   Ron Bonds; ?; ?; (3B;?;?); Paranormal, magic, etc.
   (Decatur) (V:01/01)
In-Sight Financial Bulletin Board Service ................. 455-4707 R
   Gerald Edwards; IBM PC; PC Board; (3BC;?;?); BBS is devoted to
   Financial awareness.  Free access for 15 minutes per day, but
   pay for additional time. All users must register by mail.
   (Chamblee) (V:01/01)
The Index System II   (133/202) ........................... 991-3569 $
   Rory J. Didas; ?; TBBS; (3B;?;?); INformation and Data
   EXchange System II.  For Amiga-owners. Affiliated with Amiga
   Atlanta, Inc.  FidoNet EchoMail support. (Morrow) (V:01/08)
The Information Shoppe .................................... 288-7535
   Steve & Bill Tuttle; Macintosh 512e; Red Ryder Host; (3B;20M;XC);
   Apple II & Macintosh support only. General, Technical,
   Macintosh & Adventure message bases.  Users must be verified
   for access.  System provided by Imaginetic Neovision.  Online
   magazine "Visions" for downloading. (Decatur) (V:01/01)
Kink Link ................................................. 242-6813 R
   David Tidwell; 7pm-7am M-F, 24 hrs W/E; Tandy/IBM; ?; (3;20M;N);
   Adult BBS.  Associated with "Georgia Socials". (Norcross)
   (V:01/01)
The Labyrinth ST .......................................... 594-0700 R
   King Minos; Atari ST; Forem ST; (3BC;?;?); Atari ST computer
   users.  Semi private system.  Formerly ST Black Forest.
   (Roswell) (V:01/09)
The Lair .................................................. 995-0847 R
   Dark; IBM; RBBS-PC; (3B;?;XCWK); IBM, Adult section (Buford)
   (V:01/08)
Lockheed Amateur Radio Club (LARC) BBS .................... 949-0687
   George Carrier - KA4ENY; IBM PC; PC Board; (3BC;450K;XCY);
   Oriented toward HAM radio enthusiasts. Cosysop: Joe White.
   (Douglasville) (V:01/01)
mAdHoUsE .................................................. 964-3043
   Lanny Finch; Atari 320xe; ATABBS Rv mH; (3B;380K; );
   "Atlanta's full-time happy hour"  Accepts new adult uers with
   mail application. Send name, address, phone no, and proof of
   age over 18 to: mAdHoUsE, 4385 Melanie Lane, College Park, GA
   30349 (College Park) (V:01/01)
Match-80 .................................................. 972-7947 R$
   Ruth Greene; ?; DYM; (3B;?;?); Social introductions.  Log on
   for registration information.  Has SIGS for Jokes, Food &
   Drink, Music, TRS-80, MS-DOS, Parapsychology, and much more,
   plus several private SIGS. (Snellville) (V:01/01)
Mel-Har-Rhythm BBS ........................................ 378-4410
   Lee F. Blitch; 7 pm-7 am; Kaypro 16; RBBS-PC; (3B;720K;X);
   Supports Kaypro 8 & 16 bit machines, and TRS CoCo. Uploads and
   downloads for these accessible on second call. CoCo conference
   supported. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Molecular Magic BBS ....................................... 995-5287
   ?; ?; ?; (3BC;?;?); Apple // and Macintosh. (Lawrenceville)
   (V:01/01)
Mournblade BBS ............................................ 292-9691
   ?; ?; ?; (3B;?;?); Online quests (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Omni Connection ........................................... 971-5297
   Vaughn Cato; Midnight- noon; TRS-80 CoCo; custom; (3;330K;N);
   Seventeen message bases and special interest groups. Six
   online games  with a "Points system" allowing users to compete
   for higher access, etc. Donation grants extended time/access.
   Verification required for game access. (Marietta) (V:01/02)
The Order Board ........................................... now down
   Tom Whelan; ?; ?; (3B;?;?);   (Acworth) (NA:01/01)
OS9 BBS ................................................... 446-5630
   Jesse Crapo; TRS-80 CoCo, OS/9; custom; (3;?;?); BBS set up
   for use of the Atlanta Robotics Special Interest Group of the
   Atlanta Computer Society.  Uploads/downloads available.
   (Duluth) (NA:01/08)
PC Exchange BBS ........................................... 977-6686
   Mike Simmons; IBM PC; PC Board; (3BC;20M;XCY); General, all
   welcome. Voice verification required. Sponsored by Northside
   Computer Supplies in Norcross. Optional $10.00 donation earns
   extra time. (Marietta) (V:01/01)
PC Forum, Atlanta ......................................... 294-0237 $
   Lee Nelson; IBM PC; PC Board; (3BC;10M;XCY); IBM-PC Only! Paid
   system for corporate and university based IBM-PC &
   PC-compatible users. Over 2500 files available.  Costs $35/yr
   to join. (Stone Mountain) (V:01/01)
PC Plus Bulletin Board Service ............................ 762-0923
   Jerry Frost; IBM PC?; PC Board; (3BC;?;XCYG); IBM-PC,
   Conferences on dBase, Sysops, Airline pilots, games,
   programmers. Mark Gill and Todd Moritz are co-sysops.
   (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Atlanta PC Users Group BBS ...................... 433-0062, 433-2427 R$
   Bob Nye; IBM PC-XT; PC Board; (3BC;10M;XCY); PC
   User's Group information and support. Sponsored by
   MicroTronics of Atlanta. First line public, open access.
   Second line is registered for members and the public.
   (Atlanta) (V:01/08)
Psychedelic Psystem / Western Horizons .................... 956-7197
   ?; ?; ?; (3BC;?;?); Two systems in one.  Psychedelic Psystem
   uses real names, and features Programming/Technical
   discussions.  Westtern Horizons uses handles, and features
   Games/Music/teens discussions. (Smyrna) (V:01/10)
Psychology Online ......................................... 252-8810 R
   D.B. Adams, PhD; PC Clone; PC Board; (3BC;?;XCY); Conference
   oriented, well respected nationally. Run by a practicing
   psychologist. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
SA-ARC BBS ................................................ 449-2029
   ?; ?; ?; (3B;?;?);   (Norcross) (V:01/04)
South Atlanta Mini Board (SAMBo) .......................... 766-7639
   Richard Logan; Tandy M-100, 32K; Tele-msg 100; (3;2DVI;?);
   "World's smallest BBS" specializes in Tandy model 100, NEC
   8201 and similar laptops, though all computers welcome. (Model
   100's: set to M7I1E) (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
ShareWare South BBS ....................................... 378-7914
   Steve Rohrer; IBM PC?; RBBS-PC; (3B;?;XCKYW); HAM radio, SWL's
   and electronic enthusiasts are encouraged to call.  Operates
   under DoubleDOS.  Conferences include SWL, Communications,
   PC-Jr, ShareWare News, and Tech. (Decatur) (V:01/08)
The Software Link ......................................... 263-8772
   Rod Roark; IBM PC; MLBBS; (3BC;?;X); For IBM'S w/Multi-Link.
   Technical news and assistance for customers of The Software
   Link, Inc. Primarily intended for customers, but visitors
   welcome. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Southern Connection   (133/203) ........................... 446-6269 $
   Steve Verska; TRS-80; TBBS; (3BC;10M;XC); Supports TRS-80's,
   MS-DOS, Timex computers. Georgia Tech student section.
   Limited free access to public: full access to those who join
   the club and pay the $15.00.  FidoNet EchoMail support.
   (Norcross) (V:01/01)
System One ................................................ 389-3935
   ?; ?; ?; (3B;?;?); Atari ST (Stockbridge) (V:01/01)
The System Support Bulletin Board System .................. 261-1312 R
   Barry Young; Tandy 1000; Forum-PC; (3BC;?;?); This is a public
   bulletin board system intended to help Sysops and Users
   needing computer help.  NOT to be used for any illegal
   purposes or lurking. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
TELCOM80 .................................................. 995-0144
   Everett L. Stowe, Jr.; TRS-80 Model 4; custom Greene; (3B;5M;X);
   Supports TRS models 1,3,4,100,200,CoCo and MS-DOS. Official
   BBS of the TRS-80 Users' Group of Atlanta, Ltd. Some Ham info
   too. Use 7 bits, even parity. (Lawrenceville) (V:01/08)
Third World InfoNet ....................................... 758-8498 R
   Paul Roberts; Atari 800xl; BBS Express; (3BC;65M;?); For Atari
   users. Upload/Downloads available. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Track Meet ................................................ 941-7084
   ?; ?; ?; (3BC;?;?);   (Austell) (V:01/01)
Victims BBS 4.0 ........................................... 294-5924 $
   ?; C-64; C-Net; (3B;?;?); VICtims club BBS, open to members
   only, and to those interested in joining. Group is devoted to
   C-64 & C-128 computers. Club is $10/yr, with BBS an extra
   $10/yr.  Log on and read General files for more info.
   (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
Atlanta VM/370 User Board ................................. 378-7046
   Mark Horton; IBM PC-AT; RBBS-PC; (3BC;64M;XC); Purpose is to
   disseminate VM/370 and VM/SP knowledge, primarily to VM system
   programmers, but also to anyone interested in the furtherance
   of VM. (Atlanta) (V:01/01)
The Wading Pool BBS ....................................... 452-0956 $
   Chris Wade; 9pm-5am WD, 24 hrs Sat; IBM PC; PC Board; (3B;?;XCY);
   Closed on Sundays.  No handles, please. Conferences include
   Sysops, Infocom, Programmers, Games, SF, Quest.  Supporting
   users can pay an annual fee for extended access. (Doraville)
   (V:01/09)
Wimsey (Moonstone) ........................................ 255-8646
   Bill White; IBM PC-XT; custom; (3B;?;?); Interactive text
   fantasy game online (Sandy Springs) (V:01/01)

======================================================================
[ Section 4. Dead systems:

Atari Express!                          Audio Lab of GA
Changing Domain (Jimmy Traylor)         Emory Univ. GT-BBS
Green Nebula BBS (Erick Kobres)         HAF/MD - BBS (Hal Franklin, II, M.D.)
IT BBS of Atlanta (Leroy Williams)      Lurker's Lair (Larry the Lurker)
Marietta BBS (Lamar Hawkins)            Micro Music MIDI
Pilot Exchange (The Pilot)              RAM-Page! (Gary Pearcey)
Real Time (Dan Coy)                     ScholarQuest BBS (Louis Hlad)
Starship! (Karate Kid)                  TIBBS Atlanta (Ralph Fowler - N4NEQ)
Valrost
----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Currently active systems:   146
   Private systems not listed:  13
   Inactive systems listed:     17
                      ------------
                        TOTAL: 176
======================================= =======================================

COPYRIGHT  (c) 1988 by OAS,  Inc.  This list  is a compilation prepared by  the
authors  who reserve all rights  except as  follows:  This list may  be  freely
given away but may not be,  in whole OR IN  PART,  sold;  used or published  in
written,  electronic, or any other form for any COMMERCIAL purpose; included in
any  product,  package  or  publication sold  commercially;  or included online
on  any  pay-access basis  without  the express  express written permission  of
the authors.  We prefer that you do not post modified versions of this list.

DISCLAIMER: Please note that listing of a   system   does  not  constitute   an
endorsement.  Neither the compilers  of this    list,    those    posting    or
distributing  it,  nor  the OAS or  its members  will be held  responsible  for
any  activities taking place on  boards listed   or   the   nature,   contents,
copyright  status  or legality  of  any programs  or other materials accessible
on them.

UPDATES:   Please  use  the   following contact  information for corrections to
this list.  Prompt reporting results in a  more  accurate  list.   Help  us  to
publicize your BBS for you.

By modem: The OASis
          (404) 288-0547, 24 hours,
          300/1200/2400/9600 USR HST

By mail:  OAS, Inc.
          P.O. Box 561
          Decatur, GA 30031-0561

--------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------

              End of List
