                                    The Microsoft IIS Bug

                                (borrowed from the Jihad Site)

                                   Latest on the Bug

                         I have voluntarily decided not to discuss specific information
                         relating to this bug for the time being. I'm posting here
                         Microsoft's patches for fixing the bug:

                         I have agreed to pull the details of the bug for several reasons,
                         none of which have to do with being threatened or being paid
                         off by Microsoft, as some of you have assumed or asked. I
                         haven't even been in contact with them since they've posted
                         the bug patches. They did offer me a t-shirt and "some free
                         software" for finding the bug, whatever that means. I may in
                         the future decide to repost the detailed bug information, but
                         for now am content to keep it private.
                                                 

                                          The Bug

                         I know you can't wait to know more, so here is some general
                         info on the actual bug, from the original message I sent to
                         InfoWorld:

                         I've found a severe bug that allows any remote user on the
                         Internet to halt web services on an Microsoft NT 4.0 server
                         running Microsoft's Internet Information Server version 3. This bug
                         appears to unaffected by the installation of Service Pack 3. 

                         Let me explain the details of the bug and how I came across it.
                         The bug surfaces when a remote user requests a Web URL from
                         the IIS server that contains a certain number of characters.

                         <details omitted>

                         Apparently, this bug only appears when using Netscape
                         Navigator to contact the server...

                         <details omitted>

                         When a user sends this URL to an IIS web server, it causes an
                         access violation in the INETINFO.EXE process. We don't know
                         what this small 8k process's role is in the server's operation, but
                         when it fails, it causes the WWW service under IIS to stop. The
                         site administrator must then clear the error and restart the
                         service to continue operation. The bug does not always appear
                         upon the first document request, but repeated application will
                         eventually cause INETINFO.EXE to fail.

                         A colleague, Bill Chaison, has studied the Dr. Watson log file
                         and offers more information on the location of the error in the
                         INETINFO.EXE process:

                         "This particular GPF occurred at 0x77A07614 on our server. The
                         offending application is INETINFO.EXE, one of IIS 3.0's
                         components. The stamp properties of our EXE are
                         DATE=08/09/96, TIME=01:30a, SIZE=7440 bytes. Referencing
                         the dump, thread ID 0xF9 performed a string compare function
                         which caused a read fault during an iteration of the CMPSB
                         (compare string byte by byte) opcode. This opcode works off of
                         ESI and EDI as its base pointers and ECX as its loop repeater. I
                         suspect that either ECX was either miscalculated to begin with,
                         or ESI or EDI went out of range and caused a protection
                         exception. The Watson error dialog reflected 0x77A07614 as the
                         CS:EIP of the fault when the message box popped up. The log
                         file below confirms the address of the error. Search the file for
                         "FAULT ->" to jump to its description."

                         See the attached file IISCRASH.TXT file for the error dump.

                         I discovered the bug while testing IIS for a web development
                         project. While doing so, I found that our in-house server stopped
                         responding. Not realizing that this was a bug that affected all
                         copies of IIS, I continued my investigation using Microsoft's site
                         and inadvertently shut down their web server as well. At this
                         point I realized that the error was indeed a bug that affected IIS
                         itself.

                                               

                         Personal Commentary - Another
                         Explanation for Microsoft Being
                                       Unavailable?

                         First, please let me stress here that I am a professional
                         software consultant, and in no way a "hacker" as some
                         coverage in the media has incorrectly stated. I feel I have
                         shown good faith by providing all the information I had about
                         the bug to an independant confirming source, InfoWorld, and
                         Microsoft within hours of discovering it. Please see the
                         InfoWorld article for a far less sensationalized account of this
                         event than you may find elsewhere. I originally contacted
                         InfoWorld to report this bug, and they are the only media
                         agency to which I contributed information. They were also the
                         first and only other party of which I am aware, besides
                         Microsoft, who were involved in confirming this bug.

                         The IIS bug, as Microsoft has corroborated publicly, is fixable
                         within seconds of it occurring. In my testing of the bug, it did
                         not crash the NT server or have any other effect on the server
                         or any of its running processes. In fact, the bug causes a single
                         process to have an access violation. After clearing the error
                         dialog, the administrator need only restart the WWW service
                         from the system tools shipped with Windows NT. This
                         process takes a maxmium of 15 seconds and can be repeated
                         any number of times without any additional effects. Microsoft
                         has also publicly corroborated that this bug causes no loss of
                         data, and thus, has no effect beyond the loss of service from
                         the web server temporarily.

                         It would have been impossible for "Hackers [to] jam
                         Microsoft's site" (as was the headline of a c|net article) by
                         exploiting this bug unless there were an entire group of
                         hackers working around the clock to bring Microsoft's site to
                         a halt as soon as it was restarted. It seems highly improbable
                         that a group of hackers suddenly exploited this bug to bring
                         Microsoft's site to a halt for a series of hours or days, as some
                         media coverage states, shortly after I discovered it. In
                         addition, Microsoft notified me that they had a fix for the IIS
                         bug available around noon on Friday. Were I Microsoft, and
                         my site was being supposedly jammed by hackers, I would
                         certainly have applied this patch to my website immediately,
                         which would have been, at latest, noon Friday.

                         Also, keep in mind that Microsoft has publicly stated that they
                         have been overwhelmed with Internet traffic and have been in
                         the process of upgrading their site over this last weekend. I
                         also have information from a kind reader that, if I understand it
                         correctly, he says shows that a significant cause of Microsoft's
                         site being down was related to a botched entry in the domain
                         name lookup system (perhaps because of the upgrade?). This
                         problem, as stated, essentially only allowed users to use a
                         single IP address, and thus a single server, to access
                         www.microsoft.com. As he put it, "Guess what happens when
                         everyone tries to use one server"? He says he contacted
                         Microsoft and notified them of the problem Friday, but
                         according to him, they didn't fix the problem until late this
                         weekend.



 

