Virus on Computer Disks Spurs Elek-Tek to Order Recall

Wilma Randle, Chicago Tribune 1/18/92

Discovery of a computer "virus" on a number of pre-formatted floppy diskettes
sold by a north suburban computer retailer has resulted in a product recall,
as well as offers by the company, Elek-Tek Inc., to repair any computers
infected as a result.

If the problem, identified by the company as the "Ping Pong" or "Hong Kong"
virus, is not noticed by a computer owner, or goes untreated, it could
destroy information stored in a computer's main hard drive.

An Elek-Tel service representative said the diskettes, which were sold under
the Elek-Tek brand name, included 3.5 - inch and 5.25 - inch disks.  But
cheif executive Morton Goldman said late Friday afternoon the diskettes in
question were only the 3.5-inch.  Goldman downplayed any suggestion that the
virus problem was serious.

"We find it to be an extremely small issue at this time," he said.  Goldman
wouldn't say how many "infected" diskettes have been sold, or how many
customers might be affected.

Complaints from two customers alerted the company to the problem, Goldman
said.  When the company first checked, it didn't find anything wrong.  Then
it found that, indeed, some of the diskettes were defective.

"We stopped selling them immediately.  And we got a computer printout and 
contacted each of those customers.  It appears that a small percentage of
diskettes have been infected," Goldman said.

Those customers who have been advised to return the diskettes to Elek-Tek are
also being told to bring their computers in for "treatment."

"If they bring in their computers, we will use an anti-virus program to clean
out the hard drive and the software at no charge to them," Goldman said.

The infected diskettes appear to be those sold since the beginning of
December.  All of the infected diskettes will be returned to the manufacturer,
Goldman said.

Bob Holden, a self-employed writer who works out of his home in Chicago's
Hyde Park neighborhood, is one of the computer owners who was affected
by the problem.

In December, Holden ordered 54 pre-formatted diskettes by mail order from
Elek-Tek.  Immediately after inserting one, he started having problems.
He was unable to copy files to the new diskettes, and he began having 
trouble getting accurate directory listings from any of his disks.

Holden said he spent $65 to replace a part on the computer that he suspected
as being the source of the problem.  He also had technicians check the disk
drives, motherboard, and even his version of the computer's operating 
system before realizing it was the disks.

"I'm furious about this.  They won't do it [repair the computer] while I wait.
It will take two or three days.  That kind of time loss is devastating if 
you depend on your computer as much as I do."

And, he said, that the virus should come from the diskettes is uncommon.
"This is not the way viruses are normally transmitted.  When you open a 
sealed package of diskettes, you don't expect this kind of thing.  I think
Elek-Tek has a lot of explaining to do."


