THE RULES OF BEDROOM GOLF

1. Each player shall furnish his own equipment for play - normally one club and
two balls.

2. Play on a course must be approved by the owner of the hole.

3. Unlike outdoor golf, the object is to get the club in the hole, and keep the
balls out of the hole.

4. For most effective play, the club should have a firm shaft. Course owners
are permitted to check shaft for stiffness before play begins.

5. Course owners reserve the right to restrict the length of the club to avoid
damage to the hole.

6. The object of the game is to take as many strokes as necessary until the
course owner is satisfied that the play is complete. Failure to do so may
result in being denied permission to play the course again.

7. It is considered bad form to begin playing the hole immediately upon arrival
at the course. The experienced player will normally take time to admire the
entire course, with special attention to the well formed bunkers.

8. Players are cautioned not to mention other courses they have played on, or
are currently playing, to the owner of the course being played. Upset course
owners have been known to damage a player's equipment for this reason.

9. Players are encouraged to have proper rain gear along, just in case.

10. Players should assure thenselves that their match has been properly
scheduled, particularly when a new course is being played for the first time.
Previous players have been known to become irate if they discover someone else
playing what they consider to be a private course.

11. Players should not assume a course is in shape for play at all times. Some
players may be embarressed if they find the course to be temporarily under
repair. Players are advised to be extremely tactful in this situation. More
advanced players will find alternative means of play when this is the case.

12. Players are advised to obtain course owner's permission before attempting
to play the back nine.

13. Slow play is encouraged: however
players should be prepared to proceed at a quicker pace, at least temporarily,
at the course owner's request.

14. It is considered outstanding performance, time permitting, to play the same
hole several times in one match.

15. the course owner will be the sole judge of who is the best player.

**NB**
Players are advised to think twice before considering membership at a given
course. Additional assessments may be levied by the course owner and the rules
are subject to change. For this reason, many players prefer to continue to play
several different courses.

