
  DARK CONSPIRACY INVOLVING ELECTRICAL POWER COMPANIES SURFACES

                 Rewritten by the Quantum Mechanic
                          (Author Unknown)

                        Updated 8/7/88  W0PN

 For years the electrical utility companies have led the public to
 believe they were in business to supply electricity to the
 consumer, a service for which they charge a substantial rate.  The
 recent accidental acquisition of secret records from a well known
 power company has led to a massive research campaign which
 positively explodes several myths and exposes the massive hoax
 which has been perpitrated upon the public by the power companies.

 The most common hoax promoted the false concept that light bulbs
 emitted light;  in actuality, these 'light' bulbs actually absorb
 DARK which is then transported back to the power generation
 stations via wire networks.  A more descriptive name has now been
 coined; the new scientific name for the device is DARKSUCKER.

 This newsletter introduces a brief synopsis of the darksucker
 theory, which proves the existence of dark and establishes the
 fact that dark has great mass, and further, that dark particle
 (the anti-photon) is the fastest known particle in the universe.
 Apparently, even the celebrated Dr. Albert Einstein did not
 suspect the truth.. that just as COLD is the absence of HEAT,
 LIGHT is actually the ABSENCE of DARK...  scientists have now
 proven that light does not really exist!

 The basis of the darksucker theory is that electric light bulbs
 suck dark.  Take for example, the darksuckers in the room where
 you are right now.  There is much less dark right next to the
 darksuckers than there is elsewhere, demonstrating their limited
 range.  The larger the darksucker, the greater its capacity to
 suck dark.  Darksuckers in a parking lot or on a football field
 have a much greater capacity than the ones in used in the home,
 for example.

 It may come as a surprise to learn that darksuckers also operate
 on a celestial scale; witness the Sun.  Our Sun makes use of dense
 dark, sucking it in from all the planets and intervening dark
 space.  Naturally, the Sun is better able to suck dark from the
 planets which are situated closer to it, thus explaining why those
 planets appear brighter than do those which are far distant from
 the Sun.

 Occassionally, the Sun actually oversucks;  under those
 conditions, dark spots appear on the surface of the Sun.
 Scientists have long studied these 'sunspots' and are only
 recently beginning to realize that the dark spots represent leaks
 of high pressure dark because the Sun has oversucked dark to such
 an extent that some dark actually leaks back into space.  This
 leakage of high pressure dark frequently causes problems with
 radio communications here on Earth due to collisions between the
 dark particles as they stream out into space at high velocity via
 the black 'holes' in the surface of the Sun.

 As with all manmade devices, darksuckers have a finite lifetime
 caused by the fact that they are not 100% efficient at
 transmitting collected dark back to the power company via the
 wires from your home, causing dark to build up slowly within the
 device.  Once they are full of accumulated dark, they can no
 longer suck.  This condition can be observed by looking for the
 black spot on a full darksucker when it has reached maximum
 capacity of untransmitted dark... you have surely noticed that
 dark completely surrounds a full darksucker because it no longer
 has the capacity to suck any dark at all.

 A candle is a primitive darksucker.  A new candle has a white
 wick.  You will notice that after the first use the wick turns
 black, representing all the dark which has been sucked into it.
 If you hold a pencil next to the wick of an operating candle, the
 tip will turn black because it got in the way of the dark flowing
 into the candle.  It is of no use to plug a candle into an
 electrical outlet;  it can only collect dark.. it has no
 transmission capabilities.  Unfortunately, these primitive
 darksuckers have a very limited range and are hazardous to operate
 because of the intense heat produced.

 There are also portable darksuckers called flashlights.  The bulbs
 in these devices collect dark which is passed to a dark storage
 unit called a battery.  When the dark storage unit is full, it
 must be either emptied (a process called 'recharging') or replaced
 before the portable darksucker can continue to operate.  If you
 break open a battery, you will find dense black dark inside,
 evidence that it is actually a compact dark storage unit.

