
Here are some signs and notices written in English that were
discovered throughout the world. You have to give the writers an
"E" for Effort. We hope you enjoy them.

In a Tokyo hotel:
 Is forbidden to steal hotel towels please. If you are not a person
 to do such a thing is please not to read notis.

In a Bucharest hotel lobby:
 The lift is being fixed for the next day. During that time we regret
 that you will be unbearable.

In a Leipzig elevator:
 Do not enter lift backwards, and only when lit up.

In a Belgrade hotel elevator:
 To move the cabin, push button for wishing floor. If the cabin should
 enter more persons, each one should press a number of wishing floor.
 Driving is then going alphabetically by national order.

In a Paris hotel elevator:
 Please leave your values at the front desk.

In a hotel in Athens:
 Visitors are expected to complain at the office between the hours
 of 9 and 11 am daily.

In a Yugoslavian hotel:
 The flattening of underwear with pleasure is the job of the
 chambermaid.

In a Japanese hotel:
 You are invited to take advantage of the chambermaid.

In the lobby of a Moscow hotel across from Russian Orthodox monastery:
 You are welcome to visit the cemetery where famous Russian and
 Soviet composers, artists, and writers are buried daily except Thursday.

In an Austrian hotel catering to skiers:
 Not to perambulate the corriders during the hours of repose in
 the boots of ascension.

On the menu of a Polish hotel:
 Salad a firm's own make; limpid red beet soup with cheesy dumplings
 in the form of a finger; roasted duck let loose; beef rashers
 beaten up in the country people's fashion.

Outside a Hong Kong tailor shop:
 Ladies may have a fit upstairs.

In a Bangkok dry cleaners:
 Drop your trousers here for best results.

Outside a Paris dress shop:
 Dresses for street walking.

In a Rhodes tailor shop:
 Order your summers suit. Because is big rush we will execute
 customers in strict rotation.

A sign posted in Germany's Black Forest:
 It is strictly forbidden on our black forest camping site
 that people of different sex, for instance, men and women,
 live together in one tent unless they are married with each
ther for that purpose.

In a Zurich hotel:
 Because of the impropriety of entertaining guests of the opposite sex
 in the bedroom, it is suggested that they lobby be used for this
 purpose.

In an advertisement by a Hong Kong dentist:
 Teeth extracted by the latest Methodists.

In a Rome laundry:
 Ladies, leave your clothes here and spend the afternoon having
 a good time.

In a Czechoslovakian tourist agency:
 Take one of our horse-driven city tours. We guarantee no miscarriages.

Advertisement for donkey rides in Thailand:
 Would you like to ride on your own ass?

In a Bangkok temple:
 It is forbidden to enter a woman even a foreigner if dressed as a man.

In a Tokyo bar:
 Special cocktails for the ladies with nuts.

In a Copenhagen airline ticket office:
 W We take your bags and send them in all directions.

On the door of a Moscow hotel room:
 If this is your first visit to the USSR, you are welcome to it.

In a Norwegian cocktail lounge:
 Ladies are requested not to have children in the bar.

In a Budapest zoo:
 Please do not feed the animals. If you have any suitable food, give
 it to the guard on duty.

In the office of a Roman doctor:
 Special in women and other diseases.

In an Acapulco hotel:
 The manager has personally passed all the water served here.

In a Tokyo shop:
 Our nylons cost more than common, but you'll find they are best in
 the long run.

From a Japanese information booklet about using a hotel air conditioner:
 Cooles and Heates: If you want just condition of warm in your room,
 please control yourself.

From a brochure of a car rental firm in Tokyo:
 When passenger of foot heave in sight, tootle the horn. Trumpet him
 melodiously at first, but if he still obstacles your passage
 then tootle him with vigor.

Two signs from a Majorcan shop entrance:
 -- English well speaking
 -- Here speeching American


-/Vuarnet International/-
      617/527.oo91
  24oo-16.8k HST/V32bis