
A great new software announcement!!! This memo is to announce
the development of a new software system.

We are currently building a data center that will contain all firm
data that is Year 2000 compliant.  The program is referred to as the
"Millennia Year Application Software System" (MYASS).

Next Monday at 9:00 there will be a meeting in which I will  show
MYASS to everyone.  We will continue to hold demonstrations
throughout the month so that all employees will have an opportunity
to get a good look at MYASS.

As for the status of the implementation of the program, I have not
addressed the networking aspects so currently only one person at a
time can use MYASS.  This restriction will be removed after MYASS
expands.

Several people are using the program already and have come to depend
on it.  Just this morning I walked into a subordinate's office and
was not surprised to find that he had his nose buried in MYASS.
I've noticed that some of the less technical personnel are somewhat
afraid of MYASS.

Just last week, when asked to enter some information into the
program, I had a secretary say to me "I'm a little nervous, I've
never  put anything in MYASS before."  I volunteered to help her
through her first time and when we were through she admitted that it
was relatively painless and she was actually looking forward to doing
it again. She went so far as to say that after using SAP and Oracle,
she was ready to kiss MYASS.

I know there are concerns over the virus that was found in MYASS
upon initial installation, but I am pleased to say the virus has
been eliminated and we were able to save MYASS.   In the future, however,
protection will be required prior to entering MYASS.

We planned this database to encompass all information associated with
the business. So as you begin using the program, feel free to put
anything you want into MYASS.  As MYASS grows larger, we envision a
time when it will be commonplace to walk by an office and see a
manager hand a paper to an employee and say "Here, stick this in
MYASS."

This program has already demonstrated great benefit to the company
during recent OSHA and EPA audits. After requesting certain
historical data the agency representatives were amazed at how quickly
we provided the information. When asked how the numbers could be
retrieved so rapidly our Environmental Manager proudly stated
"Simple, I just pulled them out of MYASS."

