
Here it is at long last, a compalation of religious jokes:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
From: juniper!graham@cs.utexas.edu (Malcolm Graham)

Abe meets his frind (friend) Isaac on the street.  
Isaac: Abe, why are you looking so sad?
Abe:   It's my son.  I sent him off to college, and now he has come back home, 
       all full of Gentile ideas.  Where did I go wrong?
Isaac:  Funny you should mention it!  My son, too, has come home from college, 
       with his head all messed up, filled with Gentile ideas...There is but
      one course open to us.  We will ask the Rabbi.
So they go to the Synagogue, and obtain an audience with the Rabbi.
Both:  Rabbi, our two sons, whom we have raised to be devout followers of
        the Law, have come home from college, full of Gentile ideas.  What
        can we do about it?
 Rabbi Bernstein:  Funny you should mention it!  My son also has come back
       from college, with all sorts of Gentile ideas.   I assure you my 
       friends, this problem is beyond human solution.  We must go into
       the place of worship and pray.  
The three go in and spread their hands in supplication to the Lord.  No
sooner have they articulated their common lament than the lights go out, 
the building is filled with cloud and smoke, and a thunderous voice answers them
FUNNY YOU SHOULD MENTION IT.......

			------------------------

Job, in all his suffering, discusses with his friends his blamelessness
and seeks their counsel as to why the Lord has afflicted him.  They agree
that he, Job, has done nothing to deserve such misfortune.  In deep despair,
Job raises his voice to the heavens,  "Why, oh Lord of Heaven and Earth,
Why???"

The sky darkens, the clouds boil, lightning and thunder crsh all about Job.  A mighty voice comes out of the storm, "BECAUSE,....
YOU PISS- ME- OFF!"

			------------------------

Did yhou hear that Jimmy Swaggart is starting up a new magazine?  He 
has everything set but the name.  He doesn't know whether to call it
'Prayboy' or 'Repenthouse'.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

>From fredonia!dunkirk!kaws1990@cs.buffalo.edu Mon Oct 24 22:35:53 1988

  What's a jewish delimma??

     Free ham.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From evren@wuibc.wustl.edu (Evren Senol)

In the middle of a forest, there was a hunter who was suddenly confronted
with a huge, mean bear.  In all his fears, his attempt to shot the bear was
unsuccessful.  Thus, he turned away and started to run as fast as he could.
Finally, he ended up at the edge of a very steep cliff. His hopes were dim.
But, he got on his knees, opened his arms and said,

"My God! Please give this bear some religion!"

Then, there was a lightning in the air and the bear stopped just a feet short
of the hunter.  The bear was puzzled and looked up in the air and said,

"My God! What you are about to receive ... "

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

>From osu-cis!att!mhuxu!cff@tut.cis.ohio-state.edu Wed Oct 26 09:05:09 1988


Why are synogoges round?

So the jewish people have nowhere to run when they pass out the collection 
plate.

			------------------------

Did you here about the Jewish - Japonese restarant?

Its called So sume.

			------------------------

When does the Jewish male fetus become a person (according to religious
 custom)?

When it graduates from Law school.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------


From: suz@tc.fluke.COM (Suzanne Jurgensen)


				CHURCH NOTICES

This afternoon, there will be a meeting in the north and south ends of the
church.  The children will be baptized at both ends.

Tuesday, at 7:00 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Little Mothers' Club.
All those wishing to become little mothers will please meet with the
minister in his study.

Wednesday, at 4:00 p.m. there will be an ice cream social.  All the ladies
giving milk will please come early.

This being Easter Sunday, we will as Mrs. Hooker to come forward and lay an
egg on the altar.

Next Sunday, a special collection will be taken up to defray the expense of a
new carpet.  Will all those wishing to do something on the carpet come
forward and get a piece of paper.

Wednesday, the Ladies Liturgy Society will meet.  Mrs. Johson will sing:
"Put Me in My Little Bed," accompanied by the pastor.

The services will close with "Little Drops Of Water."  One of the ladies will
start quietly and the rest of the congregation will join in.

The ladies of the church have cast off clothing of every kind and they may be
seen in the church basement on Friday afternoon.

A bean supper will be held Saturday evening in the church basement.  Music
will follow.

The rosebud on the alter this morning is to announce the birth of David Alan
Belser, the sin of Rev. and Mrs. Julius Belser.

			------------------------

			PRAYERS AROUND THE ZODIAC

ARIES		Dear God, please give me patience... and could you do it
                right now?

TAURUS		Dear God, help me accept change, but not too quick.

GEMINI		Dear God!  Who is God?   Where is God?   Why is God?

CANCER		Dear God!!!

LEO		Yes?

VIRGO		Dear God, please make us perfect and don't mess it up like
		You did the last time.

LIBRA		Dear God, please help me to be decisive, but on the other
		hand, what do you think is best?

SCORPIO		Our Father, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors,
		even though the b*****ds don't deserve it!

SAGITTARIUS	Dear Lord, if I've told you once, I've told you a million
		times, help me stop exaggerating.

CAPRICORN	Dear God!  I'd like to ask you to help me, but I learned a
		long time ago not to rely on anyone else!

AQUARIUS	Dear God, I know I like change, but this chaos is ridiculous!!

PISCES		Dear Lord, as long as I'm going to drink this fifth of Scotch
		tonight, please use the stimulation for Thy glory.

			------------------------

A man went rushing into a church for something he had forgotten, but he
was stopped cold by a huge sign the janitor had placed in front of the
floor that he had just washed.  It read: PLEASE DON'T WALK ON THE WATER.

			------------------------

Sure God created man before woman.. but then you always make a rough draft
before The Final Masterpiece.

			------------------------

A priest, who wanted to raise money for his church, was told there was
a fortune in horse racing, and so he decided to buy a horse and enter it
in some races.  However, at the local auction, the going price for horses
was so steep that he decided to buy a donkey instead.  Although he had some
doubts, the priest figured that he might as well enter the animal in a race
just to see how it would do.  To his surprise the donkey came in second.

The next day the headlines read:   PRIEST'S ASS SHOWS

The priest was so pleased that he entered the animal in another race, and
this time it won.

The headline read:   PRIEST'S ASS OUT IN FRONT

The bishop was so upset with this kind of publicity that he ordered the
priest not to enter the donkey in another race.

The new headline read:   BISHOP SCRATCHES PRIEST'S ASS

This was too much for the bishop, and he ordered the priest to get rid
of the animal.  The priest gave the donkey to a nun in a nearby convent.

The next day the headline read:   NUN HAS BEST ASS IN TOWN

The bishop fainted.  He told the nun that she would have to dispose of the
donkey.  After several days, the nun finally sold the beast to a local
farmer for $10.

The headline read:   NUN PEDDLES ASS FOR TEN BUCKS

They buried the bishop the next day.

			------------------------

Q: Why can't Jesus eat M & M's?
A: Because they fall through the holes in his hands.

Q: Why didn't Jesus get into MIT?
A: Because he got nailed on his boards.

Q: What did Jesus do when he got to the Holiday Inn?
A: He threw some nails down on the counter and asked,
   "Can you put me up for the night?"

			------------------------

Jesus and Moses are in Heaven, fishing from a rowboat.  As they were
fishing, they began to reminisce the miracles they performed when they
were on Earth.  Just to see if they could still had the knack, they
each decided to do one of their miracles.

So, Moses stood up and extended his arms.  Sure enough, the waters of
the lake parted and the rowboat settled gently to the bottom.  He then
lowered his arms and the waters closed back in.  In a few moments, the
lake had returned to normal with the rowboat floating on top.

"Pretty good, Mo," Jesus said approvingly.  "Now I'll give it a try,"
he said as he climbed out of the boat.  He took a couple steps and then
began to sink quickly.  Just in time, Moses reached out and pulled Jesus
into the boat.

"Jesus Christ!" Moses exclaimed.  "What do you suppose happened to you?"

"Aw, Mo, I should have known better than to try that one," Jesus replied.
"The last time I did that I didn't have these blasted holes in my feet."

			------------------------

Deciding that they needed a few hours of vacation from Heaven, God and
Jesus went down to earth to play some golf.  Going into the last hole,
which was a difficult par 5, they are par for par.  Jesus walks up to
the tee, swings, and makes a beautiful 200 yard drive.  Another shot
takes him up onto the green and with a final 20-foot shot, sinks the
ball for a birdie.

God stood there looking thoughtful, then scratched his head, and
finally steps up to the tee.  He pulls back, hits the ball, and
watches it as it cuts to the left and goes straight into the woods.

About that time, a squirrel stuck its head out of its nest in a old
tree only to be struck squarely between the eyes with a golf ball.
Knocked senseless with the ball lodge between its ears, the squirrel
falls towards the ground and lands on a rabbit.  Startled, the rabbit
takes off out of the woods and straight onto the green.  Just as it
gets close to the cup, an eagle swoops out of sky and grabs the rabbit
with the squirrel still on its back.  The eagle begins circling back
up into the heavens when a bolt of lightening streaks out of the cloudless
sky and strikes the eagle dead.  The eagle's prey plummets towards the
green below, and as the rabbit with the squirrel on its back bounces off
the ground for a second time, the golf ball dislodges from between the
squirrels ears.  The ball rolls across the green getting closer and
closer to the cup.  It then sits precariously on the lip of the cup for
a few seconds and then finally falls in.

Jesus looks over at God and says , "Come on, Dad.  Are you going to
fuck around, or are you going to play golf?"

			------------------------

After having been commissioned by God to take a survey of how man was
doing on Earth, St. Peter now stood before his boss ready to present
his findings.

"Tell me, St. Peter, what have you found out?" God asked.

"I'm very sorry to have to tell you this, but the people are behaving
in a sinful manner.  There's drugs, alcohol, murders, you name it - a
regular Sodom and Gomorrah.  But the worst is this new obsession with
oral sex.  According to my survey, 88% of the population is doing it.
Even four out of five dentists recommend it.  I'm afraid that it has
reached epidemic proportions.

"Hmm," God said thoughtfully. "Do you have any recommendations as to
what should be done to put and end to this sexual perversion?"

"I think that we should send a message to everyone on Earth who engages
in oral sex.  The contents of that message should tell them exactly what
will happen to them on judgement day if they do not stop this type of
activity, " replied St. Peter.

"That is an effective solution," God stated, "but I think that instead
of punishing those who practice oral sex, we should reward those who
refrain from it.  Let's send a letter that's personally signed by me to
each one these good people.

And do you know what that letter said?  NO?  You mean you didn't get
one either?

			------------------------

Bill, Frank, and Rod were waiting for entrance into Heaven.  St. Peter
walked up to Bill and asked, "How many times did you cheat on your
wife, and remember, I will know the truth." Bill thought for a moment
and replied, "Well, sir, it must be around 40 times."  "Fine," said St.
Peter, "you may enter Heaven but you will be driving that little yellow
Honda over there."

St. Peter approached Frank and asked the same question.  Frank
answered, "Sir, I do believe it couldn't have been more than 20 times.
"Good," said St. Peter, "you may enter Heaven, also, and you will be
driving the red Corvette.

St. Peter stepped up to Rod and repeated the question.  Without pause,
Rod answered, "Never!"  St. Peter peered at him quizzically and said,
"Never?"  "I have never been unfaithful to my wife, sir" he replied.
"Excellent," stated St. Peter.  "You may enter Heaven and you will be
driving that gold Rolls Royce."  Grinning from ear to ear, Rod
approaches the car, but when he reaches the car, he suddenly lays his
head on the roof and begins to cry.  St. Peter rushes over and asks,
"What's the matter?  You have never cheated on you wife, you've gained
entrance into Heaven, and you will be driving a Rolls Royce for the
rest of eternity."  Rod replied between sobs, "See that woman over
there on the skateboard?  That's my wife!"

			------------------------

After being killed in a tragic auto accident,  Fathers Tom and Mike
were met at Heaven's gate by St. Peter.  St. Peter walked up to them
and said, "Hello, fathers.  Since both of you have been such devoted
servants, for a short time only, you may return to Earth in any form
of your choosing.

St Peter turned to Father Tom and asked, "What form would you like,
Father Tom?"  "I have always wanted to soar like an eagle above the
mountains in the bright sunlight," replied Father Tom.  "It is done,"
said St Peter, and Father Tom found himself soaring above the
mountains.

St. Peter then turned to Father Mike and asked, "What would you like to
return as, Father Mike?"  Father Mike hesitated for a moment and then,
looking rather embarrassed, replied, "Well, I'd like to return as a
stud."  "Are you sure?" asked St. Peter?  "Yes, sir, I am," Mike said.
"Then it is done," stated St. Peter, and Father Mike spent the winter
in Minneapolis in a snow tire.

			------------------------

Taking a day off, Jesus and St. Peter decide to play golf.  At one part
of the course, they came up to a short shot over a shallow pond.  St
Peter tees up first.  He stops and thinks for a moment and then states,
"I'm going to use a 6 iron."  St. Peter swings and lands a beautiful
shot about three feet away from the cup.

Jesus tees up next. He ponders the shot, and then declares, "Jack
Nicholas would use a 7 iron."  He takes his 7 iron, pulls back, and
swings.  The ball goes too high in the air and lands in the middle of
the pond.  Jesus casually walks on the water, retrives his ball, and
tees up.  He swings and, again, his shot ends up in the pond.

"Why don't you use a 6 iron?" asked St. Peter.

"No!" retorts Jesus.  "Jack Nicholas would use a 7!"

This goes on for several shots - swing, splash, walk on water, recover
ball, and tee up again.  By this time, other golfers have caught up to
Jesus and St.  Peter.  After watching Jesus walk on water several times
to retrive is ball one baffled golfer turns to St. Peter and asks, "Who
does that guy think he is?  Jesus Christ?"

"No," replies St. Peter. "Jack Nicholas."

			------------------------

Eleazer Bokar appeared at the gates of Heaven and knocked for
admittance.  The great doors slowly swung open and the patriach Abraham
stepped out, blowing his golden trumpet.  When he had finished the
welcoming concerto, he turned to Eleazer and said, "Greetings, blood of
my blood and flesh of my flesh.  God awaits you."

Recovering from the awesome splendor of this type of welcome, Eleazer
quickly replied, "Father Abraham, I am ready to meet our God," and
stepped forward to enter the celestial portals.

"Wait, my brother," said Abraham, halting Eleazer with an imperiously,
upraised palm.  "Before entering God's Kingdom, you must first prove
that you are worthy of the honor."

"But how can I prove my worthiness," queried Eleazer.

"You must show that, at least once in your mortal life, you displayed
outstanding courage.  Can you recall one unquestionably brave deed?"

Eleazer's face brightened as he said, "Yes I can!  I remember going to
the Roman Consul's palace where I met him face to face.  He was
surrounded by dozens of legionnaires, all of whom were armed.  Ignoring
this fact, I told him that he was a camel's behind, that he was a
vulture who fed upon the bones of Jerusalem's oppressed, and that he
was a persecutor of humble Jews.  I then spat in his face.

"Well," exclaimed Abraham, "I am impressed.  I must agree that that was
an extremely brave feat to perform - considering the armed guards and
the Roman Consul's hatred of Jews.  Yes, my brother, you have certainly
earned admittance into Paradise, but please tell me, when did all this
happen?"

"Oh," replied Eleazer casually, "right before you welcomed me."

			------------------------

Wanting to convert to the Catholic faith, Sam Goldstein was allowed to
join the Church under the condition that he would, henceforth, obey all
the laws governing the Catholicism.

"Remember," warned the priest, "you also are not allowed to eat meat on
Fridays."

"Yes, Father, I'll remember," Sammy promised as he left his last
class.

The Father, concerned about his new convert, decided to drop in on Sam
that next Friday to see how he was doing.  After being admitted into
the house, he was shocked to see Sam eating a huge steak.

"What is this?  Did you forget your promise?  This is Friday.  You're
suppose abstain from eating meat on Fridays.  What do you have to say
for yourself?" the priest asked imperiously.

"Meat?  Who's eating meat?" asked Sam blandly.  "This is gefilte
fish."

"You must take me for a fool!" snapped the outraged priest.  "How can
anyone make fish out of meat?"

"The same way the Church makes a Catholic out of a Jew," answered the
convert smoothly.  "I sprinkled holy water on it."

			------------------------

Adolph Hitler was having terrible nightmares, and so he decided to go
to a fortune teller hoping that the woman could find the source of his
problem.  "I am sorry but I am unable to help you solve your dreams"
said the fortune teller, "but I do know that you will die on a Jewish
holiday."

"And which holiday will this be?" he asked.

"It does not matter." she replied.  "Any day that you die will be a
Jewish Holiday."

			------------------------

One day, three nuns were talking while enjoying their cups of tea, when
one of the nuns leaned towards the other two and whispered, "I'm in
such a dilemma, sisters, and I don't know what to do.  Maybe you can
help me.  When I was cleaning the Father's room, I found a box of
condoms in his dresser drawer, and now I don't know whether or not to
tell Bishop. What do you think I should do?"

"Oh my word," said the second nun.  "I must have found the same box of
condoms when I cleaned his room last week!  Well, I don't know if you
should tell the Bishop or not but do you know what I did?  I poked a
hole in the end of each and everyone of them."

Both nuns heard a gasp, turned and saw that the third nun had fainted.

			------------------------

One day, a very naive, newly ordained priest discovered that he needed
to get something in town.  Having never been there before, he was
looking forward to the excursion.  As he walked down the street, taking
in the atmosphere of this rather large town, a scantily clad beauty
called out to him, "Ten dollars for a quicky, Father?"  Embarrassed and
unsure as to what this woman was talking about, he hurried past her
with his head down.  Moving swiftly down the street and pondering the
meaning of the woman's words, he was startled by a voice that said,
"Hey Father, ten bucks for a quicky!"  Looking up, he saw another woman
wearing even less clothes than the previous one.  Now completely
flustered and confused, the priest ran past the woman and hurried on to
complete his errand so that he could get back to the monastery to talk
to someone about his encounters.  At the monastery, he approaches the
Mother Superior and asked, "Mother Superior, what's a quicky?"  She
replied, "Ten dollars, same as in town."

			------------------------

Cleveland still lives.  God MUST be dead.

God gave us relatives; thank goodness we can chose our friends.

Q: Why don't Baptists do it standing up?
A: Because it might lead to dancing.

			------------------------
Christian:
1. One who believes that the New Testament is a divinely inspired book
   that is admirably suited to the spiritual needs of his neighbor.
2. One who follows the teachings for Christ in so far as they are not
   inconsistent with a life of sin.

Monday:
1. In Christian countries, it is the day after the football game.

Occident:
1. The part of the world west of the Asia.  It is largely inhabited by
   Christians, powerful sub-tribe of the Hypocrites, whose principle
   industries are murder and cheating, which they are pleased to call
   "war" and "commerce." These are also the principal industries of
   the Asia.

			------------------------

History has the relation to truth that theology has to
religion - i.e.  none to speak of.
					-- Lazarus Long

"If God wanted us to have a president, He would have sent us a candidate."
					-- Jerry Dreshfield

"What the hell are you getting so upset about?  I thought that you
didn't believe in God?"

"I don't," she sobbed, bursting into tears, "but the God I don't
believe in is a good God, a just God, a merciful God.  He's not the
mean and stupid God you make him out to be."
					-- Joseph Heller

"A Mormon is a man that has the bad taste and the religion to do what a
good many other people are restrained from doing by conscientious
scruples and the police."
					-- Mr. Dooley

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

From: blblbl!hilda (Hilda Marshall)


Did you hear about the Unitarian branch of the Ku Klux Klan?

They burn question marks in people's front yards.

			------------------------

Then there was the woman who bought herself a Lamborghini, and
though she wasn't particularly religious, she had worked hard
for the car and wanted it blessed.  She asked the rabbi next door
to bless it for her, but he said, "A sports car is really a bit
out of my domain.  You should ask the priest."  So she asked the
priest at St. Christopher's, but he said, "I really wouldn't
know how to bless a sports car.  We're really pretty traditional.
Why don't you ask the Unitarian minister?"  So, somewhat exasperated,
she hunts down the Unitarian minister, and says, "You must be the
only person in this town who can give me a blessing for my
new Lamborghini!"  The minister replied, "A Lamborghini?  That's
a fine car!  Have to be careful with the suspension though -
it can be rough on turns.  Now, what did you want?  A blessing?
What's that?"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
From: will1990@dunkirk.UUCP (SID PSYCHO EAT'EM UP WILLIAMSON)
                  - and -
From: suz@tc.fluke.COM (Suzanne Jurgensen)


			THE FIRST SERMON

The new priest, at his first Mass, was so afraid that he was unable to speak.
Before his second week at the pulpit, he asked the Monsignor how he could
relax.  The Monsignor said, "Put some martinis in the water pitcher.   After
a few sips, you should relax enough and everything should go smoothly."
The next week the young priest put his elder's suggestion into practice and
really talking up a storm.  After the sermon, he asked the Monsignor how he
had done.  The Monsignor replied, "A definite improvement over last week
but I think there are a few things you should learn before you address the
congregation again."



(suz)FIRST:   Next time, sip the martinis rather than gulping them down.

(suz)SECOND:  There are 10 commandments, not 12.

(suz)THIRD:   There are 12 disciples, not 10.

(suz)FOURTH:  David slew Goliath; he did not kick the shit out of him.

(suz)FIFTH:   We do not refer to our Savior, Jesus Christ, and his disciples as
             "The late J.C. and the boys."

(suz)SIXTH:   Next Sunday there is a taffy pulling contest at St. Peter's not a
              peter pulling contest at St. Taffy's.

(suz)SEVENTH: We do refer to the Cross as the "Big T."

(suz)EIGHTH:  The Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost are not referred to as
              "Big Daddy, Junior, and the Spook."

(will1990)NINTH: The recomended grace before Meals AND Communion is NOT
                 "RUB-A-DUB-DUB, THANX FOR THE GRUB, YEAH GOD!"

(suz)TENTH:   And last, but not least, it's the Virgin Mary, NOT "Mary with the
              Cherry!!!"

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
From: will1990@dunkirk.UUCP (SID PSYCHO EAT'EM UP WILLIAMSON)


Never, under any circumstances, be left alone with a cross-eyed nun
with a bullwhip in one hand and a bottle of Gin in the other.......

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

>From edsews!roberts@uunet.UU.NET Thu Nov  3 19:36:45 1988

How do we know Jesus was jewish?

Four reasons:

1)  He lived at home until he was 35.
2)  He went into his fathers business.
3)  He thought his mother was a virgin.
4)  His mother thought he was a god.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
From: "Jon C. Slenk" <js9b+@andrew.cmu.edu>

How many Christians does it take to screw in a light bulb?

Three, but theres only really one!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
From: jsb@b.cs.wvu.wvnet.edu (Jeffrey S. Blatt)

[Hey, that's me!]

A priest and nun are playing golf.  They come to the first hole and 
the nun goes first.  She swings and the ball goes beautifully.  It
was a hole in one. The Priest rolls his eyes and goes.  He slices
and the ball goes deep in the ruff.  The prieat says "Damnit!"
The nun gives him a dirty look and the go an to the next hole.
This time the nun goes and hits another hole in one and the prieat gets
up and slices into the ruff again.  He says "Damnit I did it again!"
It goes on this way until the 17th hole.  On the 17th hole the nun
again gets a hole in one and the priest slices into the ruff and says
"Damnit I did it again!"  This time the nun looks at him and says, "If
you don't stop using language like that a lightning bolt will come
out of the heavens an strike you dead!"  The priest shrugs it off by
saying under his breath, "Yeah, yeah."

At last they come to the 18th hole and the nun gets up and again hits a 
hole in one.  (That's right you too can score an 18 at golf if you become
a nun)  The priest gets up and slices into the ruff.  Again he says, 
"Damnit I did it again!"  Now he had done it for the cloudsa cam rolling in 
and a lightning bolt came down from heaven and struck the nun dead.  The
clouds parted and a voice from heaven said "DAMNIT I DID IT ADAIN!"

                      -----------------------

	Jesus, Moses and a very old man are playing golf.  At the first
hole there was a water puddle aprox 10 ft. from the hole.  The first one
to go was Moses.  He swung and it was a beautiful shot but it headed right
for the water puddle.  Moses opened his eyes widely and the water split
down the middle and the ball rolled through.  The ball finnally stopped 
about 5 ft from the hole.
	Jesus looked at Moses and said "Good shot Moses."
	Jesus was up next.  He swung and it was a beautiful shot but it was
also heading directly for the water puddle.  So Jesus opened his eyes very 
wide and the golf ball sprouted legs and walked on the water.  The ball 
finnally stopped about 3 ft from the hole.
	Moses looked at Jesus and said "Good shot Jesus."
	Finnally, it was the older man's turn.  He swung and being a weak old 
man he only hit the ball about 15 ft. but before the ball stopped a gofer 
picks the ball up and begins to run away, then an eagle swoops down and 
grabs the gofer and begins to fly away with it, then a bolt of lightning
strikes the eagle, the eagle drops the gofer, the gofer hits the ground, the
ball flies out of its mouth and into the hole.
	Jesus looks over at the old man and says "Good shot Dad."

                      -----------------------

Three nuns (a good nun a pretty good nun, and a bad nun) die and are 
standing in front of the gates of heaven and there they meet St. Peter.
St. Peter looks at the first one and says, "You have been a good 
nun all your life but there are rules, and to pass into heaven 
you must be able to answer my question.  Since you were good nun all
your life the question I have for you will be an easy one.  Here is my
question:  Who was the first man?"

The nun just smiles and says, "By the glory of God, The Lord created
Adam to be the father of the human race."

Bells start ringing and the gates fly open.  The first nun passes through.

St. Peter then directs his attention at the pretty good nun.  He
says to her "Since you have been a pretty good nun all your life
I will ask you an easy question.  My question to you is:  Who
was the first woman?"  

The nun just smiles and says "By The Lord's wisdom, The Father created
Eve from Adam's rib."

Bells start ringing and the gates fly open.  The second nun passes through.

The bad nun knowing she's in trouble tries to sneak into heaven 
while the gates are open but the gates slam in her face.  St Peter
Looked over at her and said "I'm sorry but to get into heaven you
must first answer my question.  To you I will ask a hard question
for you have not been a good nun but if you really think about it
you should be able to get it.  My question to you is: What was the
first thing that Eve said to Adam?"

The nun shakes here head and thinks for a while.  Then she looks up at
St. Peter shakes her head some more and says, "Boy, that's a hard one."

and bells start ringing ...

                      -----------------------

Jesus is hanging on the cross.  As he is haging, he yells, "John, John,
come here, quick!"

John hear's the voice of his master and came running up to the Lord. As he 
gets there the guards catch him, cut off his legs, and through him back
in the crowd.

Jesus yells again, "John, John, come here quickly, quickly!"

So John, crawling on his hands alone, approaches the cross.  The guards
catch him again, cut off his arms and throw him back in the crowd.

Jesus yells a third time, "John, John, you must come quickly, time is
short, hurry!"

So John with his tremendious faith, using his chin alone, approaches
the cross.  The guards do not see him and he gets to the base, flips over
and says, "Yes Lord."

Jesus says, "I can see your house from up here!!!"

                      -----------------------

How do you make Holy Water?

Boil the hell out of it.

                      -----------------------

Hugh Hefner and Heather Thomas die and go to heaven.  They are greeted by
St. Peter who says to Hugh, "You have corrupted the lives of many men and
boys alike with your pornography.  You have only one chance to get into the
kingdom of God, you must walk down that tunnel without even one unclean
thought.  If you do, a trap door will open up under you and you will fall
into hell where you will cry and nash your teeth."

Hugh decides that this will be easy for the tunnle is only 100 feet long.
So he begins down the tunnle with St. Peter following behind.  About half
way down the tunnle St. Peter leans over towards Hugh and yells "Tits!!" 
and a trap door opens and Hugh falls down into Hell.

St. Peter then goes to Heather Thomas and says, "You have corrupted the lives
of many men and boys alike with your sexy looks.  You have only one chance
to get into the kingdom of God, you must walk down that tunnel without even
one unclean thought.  If you do, a trap door will open up under you and you
will fall into hell where you will cry and nash your teeth."

They begin there long trek down the tunnel.  About half way down St. Peter
leans over towards Heather and a trap door opens and St. Peter falls down
into Hell.

                         --------------------------

A young nun is in a monistary and is plegued with thoughts of men.  She
decides that she can no longer life wiht these thoughts and goes to the
Mother Superior.  She says, "Um, Mother, I am being stricken by, ah, unpure
thoughts about men."

The mother just smiles and says, "It happens to all the young ones, sister.
To relieve yourself of this, every time you have an unclean thought go to
a mirror, make your hand into a gun and shoot your reflection."

The young nun is a little skeptical of this but thanks the Mother Superior 
and leaves.  Down the hall a little bit she begins to have an unclean thought.
She promptly runs to a mirror and makes her hand into a gun, points it at the
reflection, and goes "BANG!"

The unclean thought vanishes imediatly.  This makes the young nun happy and
she goes about her routine again.  She has an unclean thought ever once
in a while but she promptly gets rid of it.

One day the youg nun gets up and gets ready for breakfast when she is plagued
by one of those thoughts so she points at her reflection and goes "BANG" and
it goes away.  She finishes getting ready and it comes back.  She goes to the
mirror and goes "BANG" and it goes away.  She leaves for breakfast and it comes
back so she runs to the hall mirror and goes "BANG" but it comes right back.
She goes "BANG" again and it comes back.  She goes "BANG, BANG, BANG, BANG"
but it is no use the thought keeps comming back.  Panic stricken she runs
to the Mother Superiors room throws the door open only to find the Mother
Superior in fron of her mirror going "Rat tat tat tat tat tat!"

                         --------------------------

Yesterday I became a Jehova's Witness. Not because of the religion but
so they would stop comming to my house.

                         --------------------------

A young priest gets up in the morning and goes to breakfast.  On his way there
two nuns look at him and he says, "Good morning sisters" and they reply in a
sing song manner, "You got up on the wrong side of the bed this morning."

This stuns the priest who thought he had been very polite but he just goes
on.  He incounters a Brother a little while later along the way and he says,
"Good morning Brother."  The Brother replies in a sing song voice, "You got 
up on the wrong side of the bed this morning."  The priest was very confused 
at this and goes on.

He gets a little farther and he comes across a fellow priest and he says, 
"Good morning Father." the priest replies in a sing song manner, "You got up 
on the wrong side of the bed this morning."  Now the priest was mad.  He
continues his walk to the dinning hall not saying a word to anyone.  The 
Bishop sees him and says, "Father ..."  The young priest was not going to
take any more even from the bishop.  He looks at the bishop and says, 
"No I did not get up on the wrong side of the bed this morning."  The 
bishop looks at him stuned and says "What?"  The priest reallized his
mistake and said "I am sorry your holiness, what is it you want."  The
bishop looks at him and says, "All I wa going to do was ask you why you had
on Sister Ann's shoes?"

                      -----------------------------

Larry Lobster and Sam Clam where best friends.  They did everything together.
The only difference between them is that Larry was the nicest Lobster ever
and Sam, well lets just say he was not so good.

Larry and Sam did so much together that they even dies together.  Larry went
to heaven and Sam went to hell.

Larry was doing well in heaven and one day St. Peter came up to him and said
"Larry, you know you are the nicest clam we ever had up here.  Everyone likes
you but you seem to be a bit depressed.  Tell me what is bothering you, maybe
I can help."

Larry said, "Well, don't get me wrong Pete, Ilike it up here and everything,
but I really miss my good friend Sam Clam.  We used to do everything together
and I really miss him a lot."

St. Peter looked at Larry with pity and said to him, "I tell you whatm I can
arrange it so that you can go down to hell tomorrow and visit Sam all day.
How would that sound?"

This made Larry very happy and he got up bright and early the next morning
and grabbes his wings, his harp, and his halo and got in the elevator to hell.
When the doors opened he was met by Sam.  The hugged each other and they were
off.  You see in Hell Sam owned a disco.  The spent the day there together
and had a great time.  At the end of the day Larry and Sam went back to the
elevator together said their goodbyes and Larry got back in the elevator and
went up to heaven.  He steped off the elevator and was greeted there by 
St. Peter who blocked the doorway to heaven.  He looked at Larry and said,
"Larry Lobster, Didn't you forget something?"

Larry looked around and said "No, I don't think so I have my Halo and my
wings."

St. Peter looked at him and said, "Yes, but what about your harp?"

Larry gasped and said, "I left my Harp in Sam Clam's Disco."

                       ------------------------

In a monistary in Wyoming, everyday before breakfst the Superior would
chant "Good Morning, Good Morning"  and the Brothers would all chant 
back "Good Morning, Good Morning."  There was only one problem with this
morning chant, one brother thought it was the stupidest thing in the world.
He really hated it.

One moring he decided that he would get them all back and hopefully stop this 
stupidity.  That morning he went to breakfast ant the Superior came in and
chanted "Good Morning, Good Morning" and all the Brothers except the one 
chanted, "Good Morning, ..."  At this the one Brother chanted as loud as
he could, "Good Evening."

Upon hearing this the Superior stoo up and chanted "Someone chanted evening!"

                       ------------------------

One day God came down from heaven and came to the Pope.  God looked at the
Pope and said, "Do not be afraid, this is just a little survey I take of
all the Popes.  The first question I have of you is do you think that
Priests will ever be able to get married?"

The Pope answered "Ah, no, not in my life time."

God said, "Okay, the next question is: Do you think there should be women
priests?"

The Pope answered "Ah, no, not in my life time."

God said, "Okay, my last question is: Do you think the Roman Catholic
church should approve birth control?"

The Pope answered "Ah, no, not in my life time."

God said, "Okay, thank you very much for your time." and he turned and
started to leave when the Pope said, "Lord, may I ask you one question?"

God turned to the Pope and said, "Sure, you answered mine, what would you
like to know?"

The Pope said, "As you know I am very patriotic and I was wondering if
there would ever be another Polish pope?"

God answered "Ah, no, not in my life time."

                            ------------------------

God came down to the Pope and said to him, "JP, you have been a good pope
and so I am going to reward you with three wishes."

Stunned, the Pope said, "First of all, I would like the world to end it's
petty bickering about religion and be united under one religion. That
religion being Catholicism."

God said, "Done."

Next the Pope said, "As you know I am Polish and I would like you to remove
all the Polak Jokes from the world."

God said, "Done."

The Pope then said, "Finally I would like you to get rid of M&M's."

God said, "Done, but let me ask you a question, why would you like to rid
the world of M&M's?  I always thought they were a good candy, you know
melt in your mouth, not in your hand and all."

The Pope lowered his head and said, "I know but I am getting older not
and it's getting harder and harder to peel that damn shell off."


                         -----------------------

There where 3 nuns on a train and they had been talking for some time when
they decided to pass the time they decided to tell each other what their
greatest sins where.

The first nun got up and said, "My greatest sin is sex.  Every year I go out
for a week and become a prostitute.  Of couse I put all the money I earn in the
poor box but that is my greatest sin."

The second nun got up and said, "My greatest sin is drinking.  Every year I
the money out of the poor box and drink for one consecutive week."

The third nun was sitting there being very quite.  The other nuns say "come now
we told you our worst sins, what is yours."

The third nun got up and said, "My graetest sin is that I am a gossip and
I can't wait to get off this train."

                         -----------------------

There where 2 novice nuns and a mother superior riding a three person bycicle.
they were riding along when they hit a bump.  As they hit the 2 novices 
giggled.  The mother superior just gave them a dirty look.  They rode a little
farther and they hit another bump and the novices giggled again.  The
mother superior gave them another dirty look.  They rode a bit further until
they came to another bump and the two novices giggled again and the mother
stopped the bike and looked at the novices and said, "If you don't stop that
I'm going to put the seat back on!"

                         -----------------------

What is black and white and black and white and black and white
and black and white.

A nun rolling down a hill.

                         -----------------------

This is it folks, I hope you liked them and I am increasing this list and will
post it periodically if there is a positive responce to this.  If you hate
religious jokes or think that I am making fun of God or your religion then
fine, feel that way but I am not trying to offend anyone living, dead or
divine.

					J. Blatt

Little known quote:

"Sure, everyone always said 'Socrates what is the meaning of life?' or
'Socrates how can I find happiness?', did anyone ever say 'Socrates
hemlock is poison.'???????"
		-Socrates minutes before death
