

                             U N D E R  H A N D E D


         A  little   old  lady walked into the  head  office  of Chase 
         Manhattan Bank,  struggling to carry a large paper bag in her 
         hands.  She told  the young man at the window that she wished 
         to take the $3 million she had in the bag and open an account 
         with the bank.   She said that first,  though,  she wished to 
         meet the president  of Chase Manhattan Bank due to the amount 
         of money involved.   The  teller  seemed to think  that was a 
         reasonable request and after opening the paper bag and seeing 
         bundles  of $1,000  bills which amounted to approximately  $3 
         million,  he telephoned the  bank  president's  secretary  to 
         obtain an appointment for the little old lady. 

         The   lady  was  escorted  upstairs  and   ushered into   the
         president's  office.   Introductions were made and she stated
         that  she  likes to get to know the people she  did  business
         with on a more personal level.  The bank president then asked
         her where she came into such a large sum of money,   "Was  it
         an inheritance?"  he asked.  "No" she answered.  "Was it from
         playing the stock market?"  he inquired.   "No"  she replied.
         He  was  quiet for a minute,  trying to think of  where  this
         little  old lady could possibly have come into  $3   million.
         "I bet," she stated.  "You bet?" repeated the bank president.
         "Yes, I bet people!" She exclaimed.

         Seeing  the confusion,  she  explained  that  she  just  bets
         different  things  with people.   All of a sudden,  she said,
         "I'll bet you  $25,000 that by 10 am tomorrow your balls will
         be  square."   The bank president,   somewhat shocked at  her
         statement,  figured she must be off her rocker.   After  some
         deep thought he decided to take her up on the bet.  He didn't
         see how he could lose such a preposterous wager.

         For the rest of the day the bank president was very  careful.
         He decided to stay home that evening and take no chances there
         was $25,000 at stake.

         When he got up in the morning and took his shower, he checked
         to   make  sure  everything  was *a-okay*.    There  was   no
         difference..they looked the same as they always had.  Assured
         that  alls well,  he went to work,  with visions of  his  own
         personal bank account blessed with a $25,000 deposit.

         He got to his office,  went to the executive mens room, where
         a quick check proved them to be normal.   Smiling, he  waited
         for the little old lady to arrive at 10 o'clock, he knew that
         this was to be a good day.

         At 10 am sharp the little old lady was shown into his office.
         With  her was a young man.   When he inquired as to the young
         man's  purpose for being there,  she informed him that he was
         her lawyer.  "I always take him along when there is this much
         money involved."  "Well" she asked, what about our bet?"
         Smiling,   the bank president replied.   "I don't know how to
         tell  you this but I am the same as I've always  been,   only
         $25,000 richer."   The little old lady seemed to accept this,
         but requested that she be able to see for herself.

         The bank president thought this was a reasonable request  and
         blushingly removed his trousers.   She then instructed him to
         bend  over,  and promptly grabbed hold of the object  of  the
         bet.  Sure enough, everything was fine and normal.  Breathing
         a sigh of relief the bank president pulled up his trousers.

         Looking  up  he  saw  her lawyer standing  across  the  room,
         banging his head against the wall.   "What's wrong with him?"
         he inquired.  "Oh him," she replied, "I bet him $100,000 that
         by 10 o'clock this morning that I would have the president of
         Chase Manhattan Bank "right by the balls."
