!!!teG I sdrawkcaB eroM ehT oG I sdrawroF eroM ehT
!(a+b) = !a * !b =0
"2nd star on the right, then on until morning"
"640K ought to be enough for anybody." - Bill Gate
"Admiral, there be whales here!"  ...  "Scotty, that's a \SLMR\TA
"Apple I" (c) Copyright 1767, Sir Isaac Newton.
"Beautiful story.  Kinda gets you right HERE!"  -- Q
"Besides, it is clearly a bunny rabbit!" -- Data
"Captain, Permission to hook up blender attachments to Mr\SLMR\TA
"Could you continue your petty bickering? I find it most \SLMR\TAGLIN
"Damage control is easy. Reading Klingon -- that's hard."\SLMR\TAG
"Dammit, Jim!  I'm a doctor, not a physician!"  -- McCoy
"Damnit Jim, I'm a doctor not a Tagline..."
"Data does it in serial..."  --Tasha Yar
"Data, I thought you were dead!" "No, sir, I rebooted.."
"Do you know any Klingon opera?"  - Worf
"Don't dispute death unless you've lived through it."  --\SLMR
"Drop the guy with the devil ears." -- NBC, June, 1965.
"Extra pickles.  A warrior's condiment!"  --Worf
"Extra pickles. A warriors condiment." -Worf
"Fire, Mr. Worf!"  <Worf picks up extinguisher>
"Flowers!  Is there a 'John Luck Pikkerd' here?"  --Q
"For there is no sea, with out the dolphin" -- Oppian
"He was a man, all and all, I shall not look upon his lik\SLMR\TAG
"He's a potato Jim!, Let's gouge out all of his eyes"
"Hey, Worf...I hooked Data up to a Modem...Wanna see?"
"I am programmed in multiple pleasuring techniques."  --D\SL
"I am what I am and that's all that I am" 
"I did it. I killed them all." Timothy
"I don't bite. Well, that's wrong. I do bite."  -K'Ehleyr
"I hate questionarres"-Worf
"I like my species the way it is." - Worf to Locutus
"I never lie when I have sand in my boots!" -- LaForge
"I think not," said Descartes; and promptly disappeared.
"I'm Beverly...","I'm Geordi...","We are Hugh..."
"I'm not the one that misplaced the Deltivid asteroid bel\
"If you prick me, do I not...  Leak?" -- Data
"Is that funny?  Is that a joke?"  --Data
"Is that lemon in your tea?"  "No, s'lime."
"It's comin' apart, Lad!" - Scotty
"Listen, have you seen the dolphins yet?" -Geordi
"Look at all the Indians!" - General Custer
"Modem," said the gardener when he'd finished the lawn..
"Mr. Worf, fire phasers at @FN@" ... Zzzzzap!
"Mr. Worf, fire!"  <Worf picks up extinguisher>
"My favorite part of dinner!"- Riker
"RESISTENCE IS FUTILE...." The Borg
"Scotty!  Beam me aboard!"  "Aye sir!  Will a 2x4 do?"
"Scotty, I've fallen and I can't beam up!"
"Scotty, beam me up another Blue Wave message."
"Scotty, beam us a board!" (2x4 drops from sky)
"Sex is better than reading; no overdue fines."  --Jean-L\SLMR\TAG
"Sir! Klingons on the starboard bow!" "Well, scrape 'em o\SL
"Such grudges.  Give us a kiss, Worf." - Q
"Take my Worf... please."  --Data
"That was the stun setting." <bleep> "This is not."
"That's no tagline!  It's Odo!"
"The Dolphin, ne'er has anything been more divine"-Oppian
"The above Statement is absolutely True." --God
"The security of the Enterprise is of Paramount importanc\
"They are not the hell your whales." - Spock
"We must laugh at man, to avoid crying for him" Napoleon
"Worf!  Still struggling up the evolutionary ladder?" - Q
$1000 reward for finding this man:
'Ah!  I have access.' --Data
'Only a vaRool would use such language in public.' --Rike
'Perhaps you and the jerko here could come with us.' --Lw
'Saddle up, father!' --Alexander, to Worf
'The universe is a spheroid region 705 meters in diameter\SLMR\TAGLIN
'Transporting really is the safest way to travel.' --Geor\S
(((((((HYPNOTIC)))))))(((((((TAGLINE)))))))
(A)bort, (R)etry, or (I)nfluence with hammer.
(C)ontrol (A)lt (B)ye
(Ice rocks hit the hull)  "Captain, we are being hailed."
(beep) Help, I've fallen and can't reach the beer.
* <-- Tribble   o <-- Jean Luc Tribble
* <-Tribble  ù <-Tribble after a close shave
* <-Tribble  ù <-Tribble after a close shave.
* This is a tribble.  # This is a tribble on drugs.
*/  <==-- Tribble with a lightsaber
--------------------- cut here --------------------------
----> If you cut here, you'll ruin your monitor. <----
--T-A+G-L-I+N-E--+M-E-A+S-U-R+I-N-G+--G-A+U-G-E--
... Scotty!, Hurry beam me u%#$&      NO CARRIER
... and eliminate and wipe out redundancy!
...and my special thanks to the Other Forty-Nine!
...and then I woke up!
...but what I really want to do is direct.
11th commandment - Covet not thy neighbor's 586.
15› of every stamp is for storage
186,000 miles/sec: Not just a good idea, it's the LAW.
1st we shoot all the lawyers, 2nd we strangle them, 3rd..
24 hours in a day and 24 beers in a case.  Hmmmm.....
2400 Baud makes you want to get out and push!!
320
33mHz ain't fast enough!
4 food groups: fast, frozen, microwaved, and junk
4 food groups: fast, frozen, microwaved, and junk.
43% of all statistics are worthless.
9600bps and under are insults to HST'ers -Hacker's law #5
:.::: ::..: ::.::.  :..:: Tagline in Braille
<%>{ 1 fish, <%>{ 2 fish, <%>{ red fish, <%>{ blue fish
<<---- THIS SPACE FOR SALE ---->>
<ZAP!> That was *not* manual override.  -- Data
>> BEER.CAN not found, USER.EXE not loaded <<
A 100% right of return both ways.
A BBSer's telephone bill knows no bounds...
A Thousand points of Broccoli!
A bird in the hand is safer than one overhead.
A cats worst enemy is a closed door.
A clean desk is a sign of a -sick- mind
A clean desk is a sign of a cluttered desk drawer.
A clean disk is the sign of a warped drive.
A clean, neat, desk is a sign of a very sick mind.
A closed mouth gathers no feet...
A committee has 6 or more legs and no brain.
A friend: someone who likes you even after they know you.
A lie that can be passed off as truth becomes truth.
A little nukie never hurt anyone!
A phaser is the universal communicator. þ Worf
A phaser on stun is like a day without orange juice.
A piano is a piano is a piano. Gertrude Steinway.
A seminar on Time Travel will be held two weeks ago
A single fact can spoil a good argument.
A stitch in time would have confused Einstein.
A thick head can do as much damage as a hard heart.
A tribble a day keeps the Klingons away.........
A wise man once said.... I don't know...
A wok is what you throw at a wabbit.
A)bort R)etry G)et a stick and kill it.
AAAAA - American Association Against Acronym Abuse
ASCII and ye shall receive.
ASCII stupid question... get a stupid ANSI!
After we pull the pin, Mr. Grenade is NOT our friend!
Ah, come on, just this one last little feature.
Ah, my trombone.  Let me show you how it works. þ Riker
Air Geordis - TNG footwear
Alex, I'll take "Things Only I Know" for $1000.
All I need to know I learned from my cat.
All babies speak Klingonese
All hope abandon, ye who enjoy tax forms.
All hope abandon, ye who enter messages here.
All programers are optimists.
Always proofread carefully to see if you any words out.
An ulcer is what you get mountain climbing over molehills
Ancient Greeks made dolphin-killing punishable by death.
And God said, "I'll buy a vowel."
Another nearly-full box of Smarties!!
Anything not nailed down is a cat toy...
Are they made from real Girl Scouts?
Are those cookies made with real Girl Scouts?
Are you prepared to defend yourself?
Artificial Intelligence is no match for natural stupidity
As I said before, I never repeat myself.
As easy as 3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716
As long as I can remember, I've had amnesia.
Assumption is the mother of all screwups...
BASIC isn't; C stands for Confusing...
BBS: a method to triple your phone bill.
BREAKFAST.COM Halted... Cereal Port Not Responding.
Back Up My Hard Drive? I Can't Find The Reverse Switch!
Back Up My Hard Drive? I don't have a license yet!
Bad command or file name!  Go stand in the corner.
Barney and Baby Bop MUST DIE!
Be Nice to Your Enemies, It Drives Them Nuts.
Be excellent to each other..
Beam me aboard Scotty.  Aye, will a 2x4 do captain?
Beam me up, Scotty, This planet sucks!
Beam me up, Scotty, but leave the others here.
Beat me, whip me, make me read my Qmail!
Beauty is in the eye of the beer holder....
Beep! Invalid Input.  I take only cash....
Behaviorism is the art of pulling habits out
Behind every succesfull man is woman with nothing to wear
Best file compressor around: DEL *.* (100% compression)
Beware of Geeks bearing gifs.
Beware of programmers who carry screwdrivers.
Beware of quantum ducks.       Quark!     Quark!
Big things come in .QWK packages.
Biography: One of the terrors of death.
Blessed are the Greeks
Blessed our young they will inherit our national debt.
Boldly going Forward because we can't find Reverse!
Boldly going where no modem has gone before...
Borg Empire: Equal opportunity Assimilator!!!!
Borg saying: We came. We absorbed. We left.
Borg spreadsheet program:  Locutus 1-2-3
Borg spreadsheet: Locutus 1-2-3
Borg?  Where?  I don't se*(#$#..NO CARRIER
BorgBurgers - We do it our way; your way is irrelevant.
BorgBurgers: We do it OUR way. Yours is irrelevant
BorgDOS v5.0  - Assimilate Another? [Y/n]
Borger King - We do it our way! Your way is irrelevant!
Both of his feet are firmly planted in the air.
Brain: apparatus used to think we think.
Break up a relationship - buy a computer!!
C program run, C program crash, C programmer cry.
CA bumper sticker: Cover me, I'm changing lanes.
CONgress (n) - Opposite of PROgress
CPAV Warning:(S)top (C)ontinue (B)urn infected disk
CPU - Random number generator
Can you do the Picard Maneuver in a Grand Am?
Can't learn to do it well? Learn to enjoy doing it badly
Can't learn to do it well? Learn to enjoy doing it badly!
Captain, I protest.  I am NOT a merry man! - Worf
Captain, phasers and photons down, get the hand phaser ou\
Captain, the UARTs won't take this Speed!
Cavorting about like that isn't proper behavior. þ Picard
Censorship is something ÛÛÛÛÛÛ ÛÛÛÛ I do ÛÛÛ like!
Cereal Killer Strikes Again! Cap'n Crunch found dead...
Children: Pure love contained in soft packages.
Circular Definition: see Definition, Circular.
Claravoiant meeting canceled due to unforseen events.
Clones are people two.
Closing on ship target.  Music on!  Fire away!
Cold pizza:  the generic breakfast
Coming Soon. Mouse Support for Turbo Edlin!
Complaints? Write them here legibly [] <-
Computer Lie #1: You'll never use all that disk space.
Computers are OUR business, our ONLY business
Computers are not intelligent. They only think they are
Computers can never replace human stupidity.
Congratulations Data, it's a girl.  Troy - The Offsprin
Constant change is here to stay.
Constipated Pakleds:  "We look for things, things to make\SLMR\TAGLI
Consult a real expert - Call your mother!
Contentsoftaglinemaysettleduringshipping.
Copywight 1991 Elmer Fudd.  All wights wesewved
Crewman Green, step on that rock!  <BOOM>
Crusher: Worf, have you seen Wesley?   Worf: No, I haven'\
Crusher: Worf, have you seen Wesley? ... Worf: No, I have\SLMR\TAGLIN
Cut my pizza in six slices, please; I can't eat eight.
DO NOT REMOVE THIS TAG (UNDER PENALTY OF LAW)
DOS + Windows + ATM < OS/2 2.0
DOS Tip : Don't use DOS.
DOS is just an operating system that runs Windows 3.1
DOS means never having to live hand-to-mouse
Daddy, what does FORMATTING DRIVE C: mean?
Daddy, what does RESET mea
Dammit Bones, I'm a captain, not a doctor!
Dammit Jim, I'm a doctor, not a tagline writer.
Damn it Jim, I'm a doctor not a doctor! Hey, wait a minut\S
Damn this hobby is expensive!
Damn! Outta Antimatter. I told Geordi $50 wasn't enough
Darmok and Jhilad at Tanagra
Data, data everywhere, and not a byte to eat!
Dead, huh?  Well, that's one less thing. þ Beverly
Deadwood. Nineteenth Century Earth. The Ancient West.
Death is proven to be 99.9% fatal to all laboratory rats.
Deep Space Nine:  The Third Coming of Star Trek!
Definition of Terror: A female Klingon with PMS.
Dessert? I'll take a piece of cherry ã.
Detach the saucer, Data.  Don't spill the tea!
Did you know that no-one ever reads these things?
Discoveries are made by not following instructions.
Divers do it better under pressure.
Divers do it deeper.
Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?  Ask Data.
Do Not Attempt to Traverse a Chasm in Two Leaps...
Do not believe in miracles -- rely on them.
Do unto others JUST BEFORE they do unto you!
Does Windows 3.1 come with a Hard Drive?
Does anybody have a ";" Reminder key?
Does history record any case where a majority was right?
Doing my part to preserve order in the universe
Don't drink and park, accidents cause people
Don't take life so seriously.  It won't last.
Don't use a big word where a diminutive one will suffice.
Don't worry, I'm fluent in weirdo...
Dr. McCoy, I hate your #*@%ing human guts.  Discussion?
Dr. Soong did not intend me to be used this way. þ Data
Drive C: Error, (A)bort (R)etry (I)gnore (K)ick (S)cream
Duh. . . I didn't know FORMAT C: did that!?
Dumb luck beats sound planning every time.  Trust me.
ERROR: Unable to come up with a good tagline.
Eagles Soar!, but weasels arn't sucked into jets!
Earthquakes are Earth's way of saying, WAKE UP !!!!!!!!!!
Eat any good books lately þ Q
Efficiency takes time!  Frugality: who can afford it?
Ensign Pillsbury:  He's bread Jim!
Error - [A]bort, [R]etry, [F]ake like it's working...
Error 216: Tagline out of paper
Eschew obfuscation!
Ever stop to think, and forget to start again?
Every little BYTE helps
Every man's work is a portrait of himself.
Everybody remember where we parked.  -- Kirk
Everything that is not mandatory is forbidden.
Evil Grin #13  <<<<<GRIN>>>>>
Evolution is RELIGIOUS because it can't be proven!
Exam is a four-letter word for torture...
Excuse me, do you mind if I squish in here?  - Odo
Experience is a good teacher but her fees are high
Experience: What you get when you don't get what you want
FILE NOT FOUND..... Should I fake it? [Y/n].........
Fax me no questions, I'll Fax you no lies!
Feed your faith and starve your doubts to death.
Feet Smell?  Nose Run?  Hey, you're upside down!
Fiddle: Friction of a horse's tail on a cat's entrails.
Fine, Fine...Have your Klingon servent get some chairs!
Fire at Will!  >ZAP<  THANK you Data...I mean, 'Number On\SLMR\TAGLIN
For at the end of history lies the undiscovered country.
For discussion only. Not to be relied upon.
Format all 10?  Only 3 fit in the slot.
Fraud(n): A telephone number starting with "1-900"
Freedom of religion is also freedom FROM religion. . .
From the creative workshops of Soong, Inc.
G=Guns, PG=Plenty of Guns, PG-13=More than 12 guns...
Geneology: chasing your own tale.
Get off my kitchen floor...will ya!
Get your grubby hands off my tagline! I stole it first!
Ghosts are merely unsubstantiated roomers.
God has always been hard on the poor.
Going tagless has been a freeing experience!
Going to fly?  Walk, you'll get there faster!
Good day for flying but bad day for landings....
Got arrested for going 14400 in a 2400 zone.
Ground yourself, THEN hug your motherboard!
Growing old is mandatory; growing up is optional!!
Guess who's coming to dinner.  -- Chekov
Guinan's secret power:  her hat is a solar panel.
Happiness is a twit filter...
Happiness is finding special characters 
Happiness is your favorite program moving to Windows.
Hard work never killed anyone but why take a risk?
Have the boy sent to the bridge. - Picard
He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
He who laughs, lasts.
He's alive, Jim.  Should I shoot him again?
He's dead Jim.  You get his tricorder,  I'll get his wall\S
He's dead Jim.  You take his phaser and I'll get his wall\SL
He's dead Jim... Grab his wallet!
He's got a magnet!!!  Everybody BACKUP!!!!!!!!
He's not dead, Jim, he's just metabolically challenged.
Hell with Pascal and C.  I am a QuickBasic Snob.
Hello, I am part number ³ºÞº³º³Û³ºÝ³ºÝ³³
Help!  I'm parked diagonally in a parallel universe.
Help, I'm modeming! And I can't hang up!
Her last birthday cake looked like a prairie fire!
Here Tag! C'mon Tag! Good Tag. Good boy!
Hey Odo, got any more of that Jell-O in the 'fridge? ...O\SLMR\TAGL
Hey!  Your Trakball is upside down!
Hi! I'm a tagline virus! Steal me & join in the fun!
Hire the morally handicapped
Hiya, Doc! What's cookin'? - Data
Hold on - wait, maybe the answer's looking for you.
Honor would be better served if I were your mate. þ Worf
Housework can kill you if done right.
How come all the buttons keep flying off my shirt?
How could I have downloaded a virus?!?!  It said NO CARRI
How do frogs die? Ker-mit suicide
How many of you believe in telekinesis?  Raise MY hand!
How much can I get away with and still go to heaven?
How'm I flyin'?  Dial 1-800-BORG-YOU. -Borg
How's this for diplomacy?  Shoot them all!  --Kirk
Human Intelligence. The greatest oxymoron ever!
Humans: The species that should have never been...
I AM RELAXED! - Worf
I BBS because no one can read my handwriting
I DO NOT...I do not yell.  -- Worf
I Had A Life Once, Now I Have A Computer
I Have To Stop Now, My Fingers Are Getting Hoarse!
I Just can not resist a little fun along the way.  :-)
I am Locutus of Borg.  Do you have any Grey Poupon?
I am Locutus of Borg. I demand Earl Grey tea - for 10000.
I am afraid that is beyond my design parameters. þ Data
I am. Therefore, I think.  I think.
I believe I will take this opportunity to remove my ears.
I call my computer "Hole in the Desk"
I came. I saw. I charged it.
I can SPELL, I just can't TYPE worth a hoot !
I can assure you that size will not be a problem. þ Worf
I can't be overdrawn, I still have more checks!
I can't believe my computer's on fire.
I can't, Doctor. I might hurt you. þ Worf
I could be arguing in my spare time.
I didn't know it was impossible when I did it.
I do know a few things about anatomy, Jean-Luc. þ Beverly
I don't know much about panda bears, Number One. þ Picard
I don't steal taglines -- I replicate them.
I don't want to think.  I just want to be...
I fear you must blame your own perverse urges. þ Picard
I feel fine.....Everything seems a little smaller. - Pica\S
I find push buttons very depressing......
I got it all together, then forgot where I put it.
I had a handle on life, but it broke.
I had a life once... Now I have a computer.
I hate making predictions; especially about the future!
I have a mind like a steel...uh...thingamajig...
I have a speech impediment....my foot!!!
I have something BETTER than chocolate. þ Riker
I idiot-proof my programs,but along comes a bigger idiot.
I just play here.
I just steal 'em, I don't explain 'em.
I just steal them, I don't write them.
I know so little, but I know it fluently...
I like Boolean logic. NOT!
I love my computer. It's made in Taiwa~##$ ` #@
I may not always be perfect, but I'm always me.
I only counted 100 dalmatians...!!!
I prefer the company of equals. - Riker
I remember the words. I don't understand.
I remember when Saturns were rockets, not cars.
I sense... *SLAP*  Not while we're on the bridge, Will!
I still miss my ex-wife - but my aim is improving!
I tell them there's no problems...Only Solutions...
I thought DEL *.* -really- deleted the files!
I took thee for thy better.  Take thy fortune.
I used to be indecisive.  Now I'm not sure.
I used to have a handle on life, then DOS closed it...
I used to watch TV, then I bought a modem.
I want everything; do you have it??
I was going to procrastinate, but I put it off....
I was just stopped by the LAPD and boy am I beat !
I wasn't always like this, Lieutenant. þ Picard
I wish I had a snappy Trek Tagline to put here...
I wish life had a scroll-back buffer.....
I would ask that you stop fiddling with my ears. þ Data
I wouldn't touch the Metric System with a 3.048m pole!
I wrote my own benchmark, my machine is now 500MHz
I'd like to live like a poor person with lots of money.
I'd really like to lay one across your teeth. þ Beverly
I'll have one brain on drugs with bacon, toast and juice.
I'll have what the guy on the floor is having...
I'll jump off that bridge when I come to it.
I'll see you in hell before I'd do that. þ Ro
I'm SO confused...
I'm an absolute, off-the-wall fanatical moderate.
I'm at the corner of Walk and Don't Walk.
I'm bloody sick of standing here every day. þ O'Brien
I'm dangerous when I know what I'm doing.
I'm fascinated by the way memory diffuses fact.
I'm in shape ... Rounds a shape isn't it?
I'm leaving my body to science fiction.
I'm losin' it! - Geordi
I'm no stranger, just a friend you haven't met...
I'm not a complete idiotÄÄseveral parts are missing.
I'm not dead. I'm electroencephelographically challenged.
I'm not dead; I'm "metabolically challenged."
I'm not just one of your snuggle-girls, Will. þ Beverly
I'm not lost!  I'm "locationally challenged."
I'm not nearly as think as you confused I am.
I'm not schizophrenic.  It's this guy beside me!
I'm on the corner of Walk and Don't Walk
I'm on the corner of Walk and Don't Walk!
I'm out of bed and dressed.  What more do you want?
I'm saving my money for when they get Phaser Printers!
I'm sorry, this tagline is not an apology!
I'm spending a year dead for Tax Purposes
I'm sure it's in the manual somewhere...
I'm the person your mother warned you about...
I'm too skeptical to deny the possibility of anything...
I'm writing a book. I've got the page numbers done.
I've fallen...but I'll be back...Arnold Schwarzeneg
I've got 256K of RAM, so why can't I run Windows 3.0?
I've got a mind like a... a... what's that thing called?
I've used Basic so long, my brain has gonesub permanently
I@love~my$computer,;It's%made in Taiwa~##$ ` #@
If At First You Don't Succeed Ignore The Docs
If At First You Don't Succeed Ignore The Docs...
If Data is "fully functional," can he get a woman pregnan\S
If I save the whales, where do I keep them?
If I save time, when do I get it back ?
If I want your opinion I'll beat it from you
If I were you, who'd be me?
If Q was female, would he be called O?
If Q were castrated would he become ... O ???
If Q were castrated, would he become O?
If anything -can't- go wrong, it will
If at first you don't succeed, call it Ver 1.0
If at first you don't succeed, try skydiving ...
If humans have orgasms, do the Borg have Borgasms?
If it ain't broke, break it and charge for repair.
If it works, rip it apart and find out why!
If it's not broke, let me take a crack at it.
If it's stupid, but it works, then it's not stupid.
If only Einstein had a 486DX-33....   like I do...
If plugging it in doesn't help, turn it on.
If rabbits feet are so lucky, what happened to the rabbit
If rabbits feet are so lucky,what happened to the rabbit
If speed scares you, try Micro$oft Windows.
If speed scares you, try Windows...
If the shoe fits, put it in your mouth.
If there was a nuclear bombing, would I be alive to care?
If there was a wait for Q to show up, would there be a Q \SLMR\
If there's one thing I can't stand, it's intolerance.
If this were an actual tagline, it would be funny.
If we left the bones out it wouldn't be crunchy.
If winning isn't important then why keep score?
If you can read this, you're irrelevant. -Borg
If you can't beat em', mod em'.
If you need a calculator, its too complex.
If your ship doesn't come in, swim out to it!
Ifyoucanreadthis,youspendtoomuchtimefiguringouttaglines.
Illiterate?  Write for a free brochure!
Immorality will continue until beatings improve.
In case of fire, yell "FIRE!"
In it's former life, my computer was a Cray...
Indeed, Captain Picard, you have found him. þ Spock
Insanity is just a state of mind.
Insanity runs in my family; it practically gallops...
Insert disk with \HURTME.COM and strike Worf when ready.
Intriguing. I did not know humans were so capable. þ Data
Is it still paranoia if they ARE ALL out to get me?
Is it still paranoia if they ARE ALL out to get me???
Is this yours?  Your dog left it on my lawn...
Is this yours? Your dog left it on my lawn ...
It can't be full...I STILL HAVE SUBDIRECTORIES !
It depends on which end he tries to light...
It doesn't work, but it looks pretty.
It has many other uses as well.  Allow me. þ Worf
It is better to be brief than boring.
It is fatal to live too long.
It is, after all,  only a moment in the infinity of time.
It said "insert disk #3" - but onty two will fit...
It works better when you turn the brightness up.
It's a fine line between fishing & standing still
It's d‚j… vu all over again.
It's not GEEK - it's SOCIALLY CHALLENGED, dammit!
It's not a person, damnit! It's a Borg!
It's not easy having an overbearing parent! - Troi
It's not in the manual !!!!!
It's not the money I want, it's the stuff.
It's only a hobby ... only a hobby ... only a
It's raining, it's pouring, the old man is...dead, Jim.
It's worse than that, it's physics, Jim!
Jesus saves...Passes to Moses..Shoots....Scores!
Join the Group Mind - become a Borg
Joseph Stalin's grave was a Communist Plot.
Junk: stuff we throw away.  Stuff: junk we keep.
Just another inmate in this ASYLUM!!!
Just cannot resist a little fun along the way.  :-)
Just for today..... do not anger.
Just give me what the Dr.ordered..OHHOOO Dr Pepper..
KPLA, Klingon radio:  All glory, all the time!
Kids-They're not sleeping, they're recharging!
Kill them all!  .... Let God sort them out.
Kill'em All ... Let God Sort Them Out.
Klingon Thanksgiving Grace:  "Let us prey..."
LOTUS - Let Only The Users Suffer
Laddie, ya think ya might like ta ... rephrase that?
Last yur I kudnt spel modjerater now I are won.
Law of Insurance and Taxes - Whatever goes up, stays up.
Let's organize this thing and take all the fun out of it.
Lets all take the TIME to really LISTEN 2 r KIDS
Life - brief interlude between nothingness and etern
Life Facts..Death, Taxes, and "THEY" will Tax us to Death
Life can be great if you live it to the fullest!
Life is a banquet & most suckers are starving!
Like, I think my bottle absorbed my Beer, eh.
Liposuction will destroy your FAT
Little boats should keep near the shore.
Lore: Takes a licking and keeps on twitching.
MFM/RLL/SCSI/ESDI/IDE.... what's next
MS-DOS....DR DOS' Sister.
MacIntosh:Computer with training wheels you can't remove.
Madness takes its toll - please have exact change
Make Headlines..use a corduroy pillow....
Make me an offer. I have a computer to support!!
Make me an offer. I have a computer to support!!
Make me breakfast and perhaps I'll consider it. þ Troi
Man looks into the abyss, and sees himself.
Man who eats too many prunes, sits on toilet, many moons!
Marriage isn't a word, it's a sentence.
Mary had a little lamb.  The doctor was surprised.
Master of all I survey (at the moment, empty pizza boxes)
McBorg:  Over 50 million assimilated!
Meditation is not what you Think.
Meet the new Boss--same as the old Boss...
Member: International Brotherhood of Tagline Thieves!
Memory is a thing we forget with.
Mental Floss prevents Moral Decay.
Method acting.. I'm vaguely aware of it. - Picard
Microbrain, growl for me, let me know you still care. Q
Military intelligence is a contradiction of terms.
Minds are like parachutes, they only work when open.
Miracle owes its origin to the negation of thought.
Misspelled?  Impossible.  My modem is error correcting.
Monday is the root of all evil!
Money Not Found: Abort, Retry, break out Quicken?
Money is the root of all wealth.
More like Woody Woodpecker with a perm!
Mr Worf! Do you intend to blast a hole in the viewscreen?
Mr Worf... Fire at Will.. >BZZZT< ... Hey, where'd Riker \SL
Mr. Scott, energize.  Hey! Where'd that pink bunny come f\SLM
Multitasking causes schizophrenia..
My Dog ate my REP Packet!!!
My Mother loves ME!  It's the computer she hates.
My dad hit me only once - with the Buick
My hat covers my head.... Just like hair used to!!
My haystack had no needle!
My mother is NEVER on time! - Worf
My other vehicle is a Galaxy Class Starship ...
My other vehicle is a galaxy class starship.
My reality check just bounced.
My systems are only programmed for one at a time. þ Data
My teeth aren't the sharpest in the world. þ Ro
NAVY: Never Again Volunteer Yourself
Name:³ºÞº³º³Û³ºÝ³ºÝ³³ Rank:Þº³ºÛ³ºÝ³ Serial No:³ºÞº³º³Û³
Never eat more than you can lift.
Never enough time, unless you're serving it.
Never park your hard disk in a tow-away zone.
Never test for an error you don't know how to handle.
New Mexico?  Sorry, we don't do ship to foreign countries
New strain of system-trashing virus : WINDOWS
Nietzche is pietzche, but Sartre is smartre.
Night of the living dead chipmunks
No person ever became wicked all at once.
No wanna work.  Wanna bang on keyboard.ÿ
No, I'm from Iowa. I only work in Outer Space.
No, Q, I meant a BUD light!
Noah!  Come quick!  There's water in the basement!
Nobody roots for Goliath.
Nonsense, no man I know can do it that way. þ O'Brien
Northern Exposure: Watch out for the frostbite!
Not a scrap. I was deliberately wasting your time, sir.
Not, I think, today, Commander. - Picard
Nothing is 100% certain, bug free or IBM compatible.
Nothing is so smiple that it can't get screwed up.
Notice how easily it detaches. þ Ro
Now that I've given up hope I feel much better...
Null modems were created when God got no handshake.
OK Scotty, NOW!  Detonate and energize!  I mean.......
OK, I'm weird! But I'm saving up to be eccentric.
OPERATOR ERROR: Nyah, Nyah, Nyah, Nyah, Nyah!
OPINION: Where "moderation" means "attack."
OS/2 2 ..Will it send DOS & Windows the way of CP/M ?????
OS/2 VirusScan - "Windows found: Remove it? (Y/y)"
OS/2...Opens up Windows, shuts up Gates.
Of course I'm running WindowsÛëÖøÂ NO CARRIER
Oh Tasha, See Me, Feel Me, Touch Me!
Oh no, not another learning experience!
Oh very clever Worf, eat any good books lately?
Oh, Picard, I will enjoy you morning, noon and night!
Oh, well... never mind!
Okay - right after this one we're BACK to the TOPIC!
Old age is better than the alternative.
On the other hand..you have five different fingers
Once you understand your computer it is obsolete
One Klingon Flea to another...Meet you on the next ridge.
One person's <grin> is another's <groan>.
One way to better your lot is to do a lot better...
Only in your dreams, Commander. þ Troi
Oops, time for Ponn Farr!
Our OS which art in CPU - UNIX be thy name .....
Our necessities are few but our wants are endless...
Outlaw junk mail, and save the trees!
Ow. I believe I have overexerted myself.- Data
Oxymorons... "military intelligence" and "tech support"!
PATH=harddrive;drawer;desktop;pocket;boxincloset;boxunder
Parallel processors share the task.
Pardon me, do you have any grey poop on?
Path = Wandering Considerably.
People can be very frightened of change.        Kirk STVI
People! Can't live with em, Can't live without em!
People! Can't live with em,Can't live without em
Peter Norton is the "Betty Crocker" of software!
Pets are not just for Christmas, but for a LIFETIME!!!!
Pets: pure love contained in soft packages.
Phasers don't kill people...Unless you set them too high
Picard to Lwaxana: "Not THAT kind of 'Engage'!"
Picard to bridge, where am I?
Plagarism prohibited.  Derive carefully.
Plasma is another matter.
Please Tell Me if you Don't Get This Message
Please recycle this tagline.  Once is not enough.
Please think when you drink....
Please, doctor, not while my wife is on board. þ O'Brien
Political Correctness is a Borg plot.
Pound forehead on keyboard to continue.
Power corrupts.  Absolute power is kind of neat.
Power corrupts.  Absolute power is kinda neat....
Prejudice is the reason of fools. Voltaire.
Press any key to continue or any other key to quit
Pro & con are opposites, what about progress & congress?
Proceed with Caution - Twisted Mind Under Construction!
Procrastination means never having to say you're sorry.
Program too small to fit into memory.
Proofread carefully to see if you any words out.
Prune Juice. A warriors drink!
Push any key. Then push the any other key.
Put it to the wall, Mr. LaForge. - Picard
Put your hard drive to your ear. Can you hear the C: ?
Qagh -- it's not just for breakfast anymore!
Quick! Close your mind!! Something might get in.
RAM = Rarely Adequate Memory
REAL programmers use undocumented DOS calls
RIP... This tagline had now been ripped off.....
Rainy days and automatic weapons get me down....
Read the docs. Wow, what a radical concept!
Real Trekkers work out at the He's Dead Gym.
Reality is for people who can't handle Star Trek.
Reduce Carbon Dioxide emmissions - STOP Breathing
Reduce brain fat.  Eat Moral Fiber.
Riker, AKA "Number One." A spy for the Borg?
Ronald Regan: Milli Vanilli of presidents.
Rule #167: niether a borrower nor a lender be. --Robin Le\SLM
S met ing's hap ening t  my k ybo rd . .
SEGA and Nintendo are combining, they call it Windows NT
STICK \'stik\ n. 1: A boomerang that doesn't work.
STRING space corrupt?  But I always use TAPE!
SYSTEM ERROR:  press F13 to continue...
Salvation is only a Beer Bottle away.......
Same to you and whatever you meant by that!
Sane?  Hell, if I was sane why would I be here?
Schizophrenia beats sysoping alone.
Scott me up, Beamie!
Scotty! Hurry, beam me u....*       NO CARRIER
Second star to the right and straight on till morning.
Sector Not Found (A)bort, (R)etry, (C)offee?
Security, confine Ensign @LN@ to the brig.
Security, get that floozy off my bridge. þ Picard
Send more tourists..... the last ones were delicious!
Set phasers on tickle!
Set phasers to extreme itching!
She canna take anneh more, Cap'n!
She sells C shells
Shh! Be vewy quiet, I'm hunting wuntime errors!
Shoot your program and put it out of its memory!
Shoplifters with the runs take Clepto Bismol
Show me a sane man.  I'll cure him for you.
Shut up, Spock!  We're rescuing you!  --McCoy
Shut up, kid.  -- Guinan
Silly Wabbit, QWKs are for kids!
Sir, I've been meaning to dicuss these feelings. þ Troi
Six megs, two monitors, and an attitude
Smash forehead on keyboard to continue...
Smile!  You're on Candid Modem!
Smile, but sharpen your knives.
Smile... people will wonder what you've been up to.
So many idiots... too few flame-throwers...
So many lawyers, so few bullets.
So, my brother is human after all. - Robert Picard
Society like air, is necessary but not complete for life.
Some Do, Some Don't, Some Will and Some Won't.
Some minds should be cultivated, others plowed under...­
Some people are, through no fault of their own, sane.
Somebody got up on the wrong side this morning. þ Riker
Somehow, I can't see myself doing it for money. þ Geordi
Sorry, I forgot all about the Amnesia Conference!
Sorry... my mind has a few bad sectors.
Southern DOS:  Y'all reckon? [yep/nope]
Southern DOS: Y'all Reckon? (Yep/Nope)
Spaghetti code means job security.
Spare time?  You're lookin' at it.
Speak softly and carry a two-handed sword.
Spice up your love life....kiss a Klingon today!
Split personality?  Who, us?
Stand down from battle stations, and Ensign change your p\SLMR
Standards are wonderful: so many from which to choose!
Star Trek XXVII - The Search for Shatner's Teeth.
Start slow and taper off.
Stay back! I have a modem and I know how to use it!!
Stealing a rhinoceros should not be attempted lightly.
Stick to your talent and the cows will be well tended.
Still going!  Nothing outlasts Data!  He keeps going and \SLMR
Stop tagline theft! Copyright your tagline (c)
Stop what you're doing and TAKE A SHOWER!!!
Stress- n. Doing a tight 180-dregree U-turn at Warp 9.5.
Support wildlife, throw a party.
Sure, Patrick, but will the Pontiac do warp nine?!
Sure, drinking kills brain cells, but only the weak ones.
Sure, we just route the main sensor through Data's cat.
TROI: I feel pain, GREAT pain! ... RIKER: Glad you liked \SL
TWO THINGS ARE UNIVERSAL. HYDROGEN AND STUPIDITY.
Tagline Lotto: ²²²²²²²²²²<- Scratch here for prize.
Tagline error.  Contact your systems programmer.
Tagline frequencies are Open....
Tagline theft is a compliment.
Tagline wanted. Apply within ====================>
Taglines  \'tag-l„inz \  The bumperstickers of BBS'ing.
Taglines are irrelevant. You will be assimilated into the\SLMR
Taglines...the electronic "bumper sticker"...
Take a bite out of crime .. Abolish the IRS!
Take no friends and leave no enemies.
Take two crows and caw me in the morning.
Tell me more about these "habits". þ Beverly
Thank you, God. Keep it up!!!
That was so fast, can you show me one more time? þ Troi
That's enough, Data!
That's the nuttiest idea you've had, Counselor. þ Geordi
The 486SX: Intel's test of your gullibility
The 486SX: Intel's test of your gullibility!
The Away Team went on a mission and all I got was this lo\SLMR\TAGLIN
The Borg are coming!  Quick!!  Try and look useless!!!
The Borg assimilated my race and all I got was this lousy\SLMR\TAG
The Counselor and I will be indisposed today. þ Riker
The Dead Shall Walk the Earth and Dine on Flesh
The Electric Chair Choice: Regular or Extra Crispy?
The USS Reagan -- "To boldly ... um ... I forget..."
The best defense is to stay out of range.
The buck doesn't even slow down here.
The current death rate?  One per person, of course.
The days of the digital watch are numbered
The evidence before the court is incontrovertible...
The fewer the facts, the stronger the opinion.
The future is like the present, only longer.
The future isn't what it used to be.
The heart is wiser than the intellect...
The hell with the prime directive, let's kill something.
The highest bidder catches the most politicians.
The immoratal words of Socrates -- "I drank what?"
The irony of life is that no one gets out alive
The irony of life is that no one gets out alive...
The moving cat sheds, and having shed, moves on...
The number you call from has been disconnected.
The occipital area of my head seems to have impacted...
The only thing shorter than a weekend is a vacation.
The past should be a springboard, not a hammock.
The pen is the tongue of the mind.
The price of purity is purists.
The road to success is under construction...
The surest way to be late is to have plenty of time.
The trick in overcoming temptation, is to play dead.
The ultimate Turn on.  When they shoot at you.. and miss!
The universe is laughing behind your back
The worst thing about censorship is ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ.
Their are trhee things wrong here.
There are times when I long for a Klingon woman. þ Worf
There is a tiny plant here, murmuring "water, water".
There is intelligent life on Earth, but we are just visit\SLM
There is no gravity--The earth sucks!
There is one God, but which one is He?
There once was a [ ] from [ ] whose [ ] was
There's always 1 more SOB than you counted on
Thesaurus: ancient reptile with an excellent vocabulary.
These aren't my shorts -- they bend !
These things on my nose aren't just for show. þ Ro
They DO make 'em like they used to.
They're baaack!
Thin may be in, but fat's where it's at!
Things are not as bad as they seem - they're worse
Third of Five, six of one, half a dozen of the other
This Charlie Brown must have been a very wise man.
This game is exceedingly simple. þ Data
This guy has blown me off for the last time. þ Geordi
This information fills a much needed gap
This is a Ferengi Tagline.  You owe me 500 credits for re\SLMR\TAG
This is a Tagline mirror><rorrim enilgaT a si sihT
This is a hell of a time for a walk in the park. þ Geordi
This is our only tag line.
This isn't a holodeck, darling, this is real. þ O'Brien
This message cleared by Iraqi censors.
This message is $hareWare! To register, please send $20
This message is SHAREWARE!  To Register, send $5.
This message written by Dolphin Boy.
This message written by Sandy. A highly trained dolphin.
This message written by Zippy the Dolphin.
This meszage has bin spel chequed.
This never would've happened if I were captain. þ Riker
This sentence is a !!! premature punctuator
This space left blankish.
This tagline was reclaimed and is not yet stolen.
Those who can, do.  Those who can't, supervise!
Tick - Tock, Tick - Tock. Time is wasting away...
Time takes time.
Time travel gives me nosebleeds. - LaForge
Tis but a flesh wound...
To err is human, to forgive is against FidoNet policy.
To register this tagline, send $29 to ....
To shoot a mime, do you use a silencer?
Today is the tomorrow you worried about yesterday.
Transporter room, beam that tagline up immediately!
Transporting really is the safest way to travel.
Trek Classic -- Who Needs Another Generation?
Trek excuse #1: The Prime Directive clearly forbids it!
Tried to play my shoehorn... all I got was footnotes!
Trust in God, but backup your hard disk TODAY!!!
Truth is just another misconception.
Trying to think of a good tagline...
Two Wrongs Don't Make A Right, But Three Lefts Do.
Ultimate oxymoron:  "Cash Surplus"
Unable to load REALITY.SYS -- Invalid Parameter: /UTOPIA
Unable to locate TEAEARLGREY.HOT -- Enterprise halted!
Unix?  I can't even do ONE thing at once.
Used Iraqi rifles for sale: Dropped once, never fired...
User - a technical term used by computer pros. See idiot.
VCR's are a way to defeat time.....
Vamoose ya little varmint! - Data
Vuja De - The Feeling You've Never Been Here
Vulgarity: The conduct of others.
VŒçšî¨!¨  Wî d™¥'t g™t ¥™ tŒ¥kŒ¥g vŒçšî!!!
WARNING... drinking tap water may kill your thirst!
WOM - Write only memory
Walk through doors, don't crawl through Windows.
Warp 5 ... engage.  No, no, Mr. Data, more clutch!
Was Beehtoven's 1st movement done in the toilet or privy?
Was Tasha Yar the Enterprise's expert on Data entry?
Watch where you go... remember where you've been...
Watch where you go...remember where you've been...
We can't go back, and we can't stay here.  -- Picard
We come in peace.  Shoot to kill.
We do what we can but it's never enough.
We secretly replaced the dilithium with Folger's Crystals
We will get along fine as soon as you realize that I'm Go
We'll get along fine as soon as you realize that I'm God!
We're all bozos on this bus.
We're kick'n some ASCII now
We're lost, but we're making good time.
We've secretly replaced their dilithium with new Folger's\SLMR\TAGL
Well, I did a backup three weeks ago...
Well...my cray is in the shop.
Whaddya mean you don't STAPLE diskette labels on?
What Are You Looking For?  Nothing's Here!
What can you do at 3 AM?   Psssttt - got a modem??
What happened to my tagline?
What if there were no hypothetical situations?
What man doesn't like to stare once in a while? þ O'Brien
What part of "ten-line limit" don't you understand? þ
What would McGyver do now?
What's another word for "thesaurus"?
What's shorter then a weekend?  A Vacation.
Whatever happened to "Why is the sky blue?"
Whatever you do, you'll regret it.
When I want your opinion I'll give it to you!
When I was a kid, I was an imaginary playmate.
When all else fails, blame it on Dan.
When all else fails, blame it on the guy next to you!
When all else fails, read the docs.
When all else fails, take a nap!
When in danger,when in doubt,run in circles,yell & shout!
When in doubt, mumble.
When it comes to humility, I'm the very BEST there is!
When you discover you are dead, avoid driving a car.
Where are we going?... and why am I in this handbasket?
Where is the tagline supposed to go???
Where quality is just a word we like to use.
Where there's a will, there's an Inheritance Tax.
Where you stand depends on where you sit.
Who can say what's around the corner?
Who needs a house out in Hackensack?
Who the Dickens wrote "Oliver Twist", anyway?
Why USA fails? Radio Shack=USA's Technology Store!!
Why are apartments so close together?
Why are you wasting your time reading taglines?
Why is "easy listening" so hard to listen to?
Will Windows 3.1 come with a Hard Drive?
Windows 3.0: from the people that brought you EDLIN
Windows 3.1 coming to the rescue! Wait for FedEx!!!!!!!
Windows 3.1: from the people that brought you EDLIN!!
Windows 3.1: the best $99 solitare game I've ever seen!
Windows is to OS/2 as Etch-A-Scetch is to Art.
Windows isn't a virus -- viruses do something!
Windows may be slow, but at least it takes up a lot of
Windows may be slow, but at least it takes up a lot of ro
Windows: 80486 to 8088 conversion made painful...
Wit is educated insolence.
With all due respect, I'd like to go for a swim. þ Riker
With every wish there comes a curse.
With my Stealth Modem, you'll never see me coming!
XT at 8 Mhz. = 386 at 25 Mhz. + Windose !!!
XT/8 Mhz = 386/25 Mhz + Windose !!!
Yawn a more Roman way.
Yeah?  Well, tell that to her parents. þ Geordi
Yes my son, long ago mail was read 1 packet at a time.
Yes, I admit, *I* steal taglines!?!?!
Yes, I know I'm off-topic.  Thank you for your concern.
You are only young once, but you can be immature forever.
You are smart.  Can you make us go?
You can say you're (excrement) out of luck!
You cannot kill time without assaulting eternity.
You do not need a needle for ruptured pigs.
You gotta know when to hold 'em, know when to fold 'em.
You may be recognized soon.  Perhaps you should hide?
You should've heard me before you got here. þ Ro
You showed admirable restraint for one so small. þ Worf
You're never a loser until you quit trying.
You're on report, Ensign.  My quarters, 1900 hrs. þ Riker
You're one to tell me what I can and can't sense. þ Troi
You're twisted and sick; I like that in a person!
You're twisted, perverted, & sick. I like that
You're twisted, perverted, & sick. I like that!
Your cat's missing?  Have you checked my bumper?
Your statement fully describes the situation partially.
Zmodem has bigger bits, softer blocks, and tighter ASCII
[\] At 200' No One Can Hear You Scream...[\]
[dignified silence]
taH pagh taHbe' - Thought Master William epetai-Shakespea
tagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtagtag
thistaglineproducedbypkzip
