PIRATE ADVENTURE

Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of Coke (or whatever!). It's time for Pirate Adventure!
So, don't just stand there, grab the crackers, sneakers and rum, then "Go
Stairs." Hmmmm, wonder if there's anything interesting to read in that
bookcase? Let's find out. "Get Book." Aha! A secret passage is revealed! "Go
Passage," then East. Get the torch and duffel bag, then examine the bag. Some
matches will fall out. Drop the bag <you won't need it>, and get the matches.
Now head back West twice. Read the book, which tells you that the magic word
is "Yoho." Next, "Go Window," and say the word. Amazing! You're now on a sandy
island beach.

Drop the book and sneakers, then go East. There's a shack here, so let's
Maybe the pirate's thirsty, so give him the rum. Ah, he takes it and runs off!
Now it's your turn to run off, since you don't need the parrot right now, and
you can't open the chest yet either. So, go West, then East, which brings you
to the cave-ridden hill.

"Go Path," and you're at the top of the hill. There isn't much here except a
crack, but it looks like you just might make it through, so "Go Crack." This
brings you into a cave, which is a bit dark, so you had better light the
torch. That's better! Now you can see that there is a shed here, as well as
some lumber and sails. Go into the shed, pick up the hammer and the water
wings, then head North, and go back through the crack. "Unlight Torch"
(because it won't last forever), then go back down the hill and continue West
until you return to the beach.

Okay, drop the wings, torch, matches, and sack, and get the book and sneakers.
Say the magic word, and you will find yourself back on the window ledge again.
Go inside, and make your way to the secret passage. Head East, and find the
pirate sleeping off the rum. Don't disturb him; just pick up the empty rum
bottle and tiptoe out again. Now go downstairs to where the rug is. The rug is
nailed down, so "Get Nails," then "Get Rug." Underneath is a ring of keys.
Drop the rug, get the keys, and head on back upstairs to the window ledge. Say
the magic word once again.

On the beach, drop the book, hammer, sneakers, and nails, then get the water 
wings and "Go Lagoon." The tide should be coming in now. If it isn't, you'll
have to wait for it. Go North, and you will be in the ocean. Get the fish, and
also some water (that's what you need the bottle for; how else could you keep
them alive?). Then it's back South twice to the beach.

Drop the wings, get the torch and matches, and move along East twice to the 
bottom of the hill. Light the torch and go down. Hmmmm. Hungry-looking
crocodiles! Good thing you have the fish with you! Feed the crocs, drop the
bottle, and unlock the door. "Go Hall" and East. Surprise! There are lumber
and sails here (you didn't really think you could drag this stuff out through
the crack, did you?). But first, go into the shed and get the shovel. Now pick
up the lumber and sails, and go West into the hall. From there, go to the pit,
go up, then West, and you're out of the cave. Time to unlight your torch and
make yet another trip back West to the beach.

Once there, drop the lumber, sails, torch, and matches, and return to the 
shack. Now you can open the chest with your keys. Look inside two times,
because there are two items inside: a map and plans for building a pirate
ship. Get both of those and the parrot and, once again (sigh!), go back to the
beach. Wait for the tides to change, then go into the lagoon again. This time,
the tide should be out, and you can dig up the anchor. Get that, and go back
South to the beach. Drop the anchor. The magic moment is almost here. "Build
Ship," and there, by golly, is a pirate ship! However, before you go sailing
off on the bounding main, you do need someone to run the ship. (By the way,
you can drop the plans now.)

Grab the sneakers and book, and (in case you hadn't guessed by now), say
"Yoho." Now go wake up the pirate, and return to the beach. Drop the book and
sneakers again, then "Go Ship," and "Set Sail." Finally! Treasure Island! Go
to the beach and dig. The pirate will grab some of the rum and take off. Now
go South through the graveyard (being careful not to awaken the pirate), then
East into a field. "Pace 30," then dig, and you will uncover a wooden box. Get
that, then drop the shovel and "Go Monastery." Oh boy! Deadly black mamba
snakes! Good thing you still have the parrot with you. Drop the parrot. He
will chase off the snakes, and you can pick up the "dubleons" (well, that's
how they spell them in this game!).

Okay, head West twice, wake the pirate, then go North to the beach. "Go Ship"
and "Set Sail." You're back on the pirate's island now. "Go Beach" and get the
hammer. Now you can open the box and get the stamps (stamps? that's a pirate
treasure???>. Drop the hammer and box, and get the book and sneakers. Say
"Yoho," then go inside and down the stairs. Drop the two treasures and say
"Score."  WHEW!  You won the game! (It's time to sit back and relax with a mug
of grog...or maybe even two!)
